Dear Rosetto,

I sincerely hope that it is you who finds this. I wasn't sure how to address you. Who knows what you have decided to call yourself now?  What did you settle on, in the end?

I think that this rainy afternoon would be best spent writing to you. Not one of them has come out of their houses today, and I imagine this weather is a sort of holocaust to them. I have tried to cheer them up by telling them about the Summers of Sall-ed in El Dorado, how the avocados reached the size of sculpture, their skin warty with adolescence,  but none of them want to hear where I have been...

I think I might be hating them, "Rosetto."

I don't expect you to understand what I am talking about, but they have hung up more guttering, in the high, lonely passes where only I have been. Over the last week or so, on the sunniest days, little groups of townspeople have been spiriting themselves off to consult it when I have not been looking. After a while I decided to follow a group of them; they ascended through trees and confronted a small tributary of the big river whose name I do not know. They froze as one, bobbing like deer.  I am so sick of this ludicrous taboo – I revealed myself all-at-once, running up behind them and splashing into the current. They screamed and gasped, and two of them visibly gagged; they tore at my mask, trying to stop my harmless atrocity. Part of me wanted to push them all in, to cup water up and over their heads and show them...

look-look, not-everything-is-poison,  how good "does that feel!"  I wish that "I" could feel it...

After I had placated them with gifts, they let me walk with them. They were still wary, however, afraid that they were transgressing some forgotten "notnot" just by allowing me along.

We duelled our bladed shadows up the valley wall, the path narrowing to a vestigial ledge.  I began to notice alcoves burrowed into the rock, most no wider than my arm, and angled outward like the vases of caryatids. Their entrances were stained with earthen things. I was glad that I could not smell anything. As I was about to ask what they were, "Rotting," one of the hundred interchangeable beet farmers, grinned at me and motioned that I should make a lucky dip. There was a desperate naughtiness about his look They clung there in the high air and watched me reach into one; while I fished they began to laugh, their sweaty arms flashing as they clapped, and I thought two or three of them might plummet in little rollmops. When my hand closed around something delicate, a slender little arm, no thicker than a smoking pipe, I felt it snap. I left it in there, opening my palm to them to show that I had raided no graves, and found myself presented with the sight of Rotting perched above another of these alcoves, his smock hiked up to his nipples, his head contoured and livid.

I "had" been thinking, Rosetto. With such an ancestral fear of water in all its forms, where do the people of Loss defecate?  Where could such a quantity of biomass, the accumulation of two or three hundred souls, expunge half again of itself a year, on average? This figure is so key to anthropology, but is so often ignored. Here was the answer, in these latrine-temples; I am convinced that the little arm I grasped was that of a goddess or god or trickster-spirit or nymph, and that a peculiar hatred of their own pantheon is at work here. No wonder then, that they did not like the Diplomat; out in the shorn woods, surrounded by the titanic forms of my dunnage, they probably thought that it was an altar.  All gods are to be ridiculed by these people.  To look at the state of them, perhaps they could do with some divine intervention.

And so we continued, up through the attic defiles, and then under that overhang where the great falls roar. I had come before along a steeper route, and as I strode ahead they started to whine and fidget. They gripped at each other, scarred the air, kicked at the rock like animals and always kept their eyes on the outcrop above us, imagining the torrent above, and hunting for pendulous droplets, like knives about to fall from a shelf.

Of course, nothing broke through. The rock must be eighty feet thick and far older, I imagine, than their civilisation. What if one of them was soaked?  Would they pitch him over the edge, a "homo say-ser" hesitantly sacrificed in error?

This climb ruins me, Rosetto, it really ruins me.  When we reached the gully, the new hanging of guttering had none of the sediment of the older, but it bore a long, tense trickle of water down from the rock above. They stared at it as if it were a ladder down to some hideous underworld. Then again, perhaps they have an overworld;  they seem so happy down in their fetid sink, the idea of a breath of fresh air and rain might be their very own Styx, and the clouds Keiron's skiff.

I think I have a theory now, Rosetto, which I will share with you, on the literature of this people. These hanging chimes, these arrangements of what look like fetishes or lagniappes, are not in fact random, or even symbolic. They are, perhaps, representative; the closest to a language that is written in Loss. So, here...

Rosetto, My Theory

From these two gutterings -- constructions of metal and string that hang like windchimes in the highest riven of Loss -- I have attempted to create an abecedary, though given how each metal element hung from the frame, I do not know whether each represents a semantic unit or whether the whole thing is one primal seme. I will christen it appropriately "Lesser Guttertongue – I cannot call it greater until I have discovered that it is not a bastardisation.

What is clear, first of all, is that these hangings are designed from their very conception, to be paired with water; the slivery cataract through which the water flows directs the flow down onto each separate construction, and each letter, if that is what they are, has its meaning, importance and “health” couched in its ability to shed water, like a roof, or a feather. There are no serifs or looptails here, only different variations of slope. I think, in the depths of the older guttering, there may be a bowl, which I can only guess marks an insult or a forbidden vowel.

And yet, Rosetto, they speak in English! A halting, moggy English, I admit, one which either points to a recent acquisition or that they are perhaps, as of yet, not used to the space their teeth occupy. Perhaps Praester brought his own cur-English with him, and they are only just beginning to remember his words. I will have to ask them, I think, to see if they remember any more of his verses.

What is important, however, is that their adoption of English allows me to make certain inferences regarding their syntactical development and collective folkspace. It has been a long time since I have used my English, not since Lancelot needed the practice; I had no idea what to expect when I arrived here, and prepared every tongue that I could, but ever since that rube with the handprints on his neck came out of the trees and said...

"Where is your mouth, sir?"

I have been regaining my confidence. I think that even you, Rosetto, would admit that this Work has been written with more than a little eloquence.  Think about how awful my Latin was, Rosetto! My "dog Latin," you called it! Those saintly palindromes and box-poetry; they always seemed too stuffy for me.

So, I put away my Islandscript, and my Hyperborean, and my Prehistoric German, and my Arbitlem, and Ar-cansasian, and look to this script, instead. Below are my representations of those individual elements from the guttering's composition that I can remember, and my thoughts on their meaning, gleaned through extensive interview, interpretation, suggestion and divination.

The Eremite has drawn the individual symbols represented in the rubbings, and made notes next to each one.  We continue after.

So, the only two examples of this language are an old, calcified mess for which I have no reference, perhaps even a holy text, and the other some form of public order.  With all this reference to children, crowns, hats and fire, I wonder if I will soon see a festival of some kind, a feast and thus cookery. I have been jonesing for such a thing ever since I got here. To make every person in the town climb up here, just to tell them about a party for their children! No wonder they all look so ashen when they begin to climb down.

Rosetto, what else have I done with my day? Well, I spent it alone, chopping down the last of the trees from between my dunnages. The civilisation that my possessions create out here has no need for green spaces. I did wander back through the town gates to rouse some aid, but everybody was at some sort of meeting, just as night fell. The Mayor has called it, and not invited me, again. I cannot find any of them, anywhere; one of their houses pulses slightly when I touch it, but I can find no way in, and hear no noise.  But Rosetto, then I smelt it!  The very first hints of a festival in gestation: the smell of meat beginning to cook! It is coming from off in the darkness of the woods somewhere; I will have to find its source another day.  I, was right.

This exclusion may be the eighth such insult they have bestowed upon their visitor. I have put up with the Mayor and become rather friendly with him, despite the stink of his ruff, despite his awful little son that my Friend, did I tell you about her, my Friend hates as well. I have always said that the authors of utopias should be close to their rulers; my position has allowed me to see all of the failures inherent in the models. Loss is no utopia, Hytholodatus would not be proud to see it, but it is all I have, at the moment. There are at least "secrets" here.  For the composer of a great Work, that is enough.

Now, Rosetto, I hope to see you again soon, and if the people of Loss remain this impenetrable, it may be sooner rather than later. I have repacked half of my dunnage, and I know the route back out again. My muscles will enjoy the unwinding. I have enclosed a little gift for you – I hope that it makes you think of me,  when life is so very difficult for you...

I still love you very dearly.

Until soon...