The fifth of June, 11,273 BC, a time when I kept records more assiduously, was the first night that I stayed in Loftenroost. I was wet and stained blue from the flight, and I took the offer of a hot meal graciously. The bird-folc had given me a roost right under the lintel, looking out over the sea, and I had been asked, as their guest, to watch for leopard seals while the broth thickened. The Loftenroost was a polyandrous civilisation in those days, and the male birds spent most of the night squabbling below the brahminesque females, who sat, grey and sleek, up in the rafters, inventing the sciences and language and everything that their people would need on their path to evolution. The males were too lazy to climb, and contented themselves with preening their oil-slick plumage, and smoking cheroots over the pot. I still smell it, even now; the zest of astringent smoke in my tubes, corking the rankness of their stew. The herb that they preferred was poulticed and crystalline, something that I found in the lining of the Herbiary, and all of them took my gifts with greed. Within an hour they had developed a sophisticated incensual culture, and those who smoked the most had already deposited a white cak, like false snow, at the ends of their beaks.

The Loftenroost was an insular civilisation, raised far above the waves for their evolutionary fear of the seal. Not many ingredients washed up against that cliff, but their fare was important to their hardy little religion. When I conducted a Geertz Inventory, I was surprised at the proliferation of ritual objects built from tidewrack. All of their gods and goddesses gain their likenesses from the random carbuncles and weatherings in the driftwood and flotsam; their most revered deity, a spirit of double aspect which points to some theological schism, is formed from the gnawed carcass of a far-off child's toy. I think that at least some of the men believed me a goddess myself, washed in on the wind and the tide, and they honoured me with the first spoonful of dinner.

It was then I met the Bathetic, stalking up to me so sullenly with his mother's beak in his rear end, to offer me a taste of broth. He did not understand the gesticulations to my tubes, or realise that I could not, must not, remove my mask to feed, or recognise the attempt at ritual symbology to let him know that no, I am not a man of honour. I am dangerous. Do not break the seal. He merely took a long draw on his cheroot and shrugged, before his genius mother grabbed his wing and poured the ladle down the right tube; she was obviously adept at regurgitation. If she had been more stupid, she might have drowned me. How gawkish he looked then, how gangly with the compost of youth! So much better than when I next saw him, though his mood had not improved.

Until I came to Loss, that mouthful of stew was the worst meal that I had ever eaten.

Today is my 96th day in Loss, and Friend took me by the hand down to the Mother Kilns, to cook me a picnic. Though I have not known her long, I was pessimistic as to the quality of her craft; apart from the beetroot fields, I have seen no evidence of cultivation, husbandry, bushcraft or hunter-gathering in this place. These things must be established, like a sum, before a cuisine can possibly be calculated. Indeed, I have only ever been served beetroot here, in every form that I could imagine, and some I still cannot. I have begun to long for the spare, mean meals aboard the Sorgo, and have even seen scrapings of Ship's Biscuit dancing in front of me, trailing sugardust, when I am trying to sleep.

But I cannot deny that I like her and spending time amongst her primitive dismissiveness. She has never seemed to care about my appearance, or how I walk, or the various cries and rustles my body makes, or my wisdom; she is very hard to impress, for a rube. She reminds me of Jenny, and that is no dreadful thing.

As we walked through the sandy soil to the N-N-N-W-W-W, stepping around the fallen tree that the stronger villagers are inching closer to the water, summoning up the courage to make a bridge, she gabbles incessantly about her home, lambasting and proto-cursing while her lip coruscates at the scar across it. I was content just to watch her, sometimes, as she told me about some history or legend or other. It was less often that she would listen to me, about my other Works, and how she will be immortalised, pressed like a flower, into this gigantic door, hammered with copper, that I drag around after me. Instead, she feigned boredom, and warbled on about how Urquous, the young man who is her immediate neighbour, was nearly battered to death by hailstones when he was only six. Without his name, it took her nearly ten minutes to describe him, before I realised who she was speaking of. What a name would do! Think what they could accomplish, in the time saved!

In fact, though I find her beautiful, in my broad, expansive tastes, the constant natter is becoming a little annoying. She is always trying to show me things, or take me to places, that I do not have any time to write. My Work grows no heavier. This is the first entry I have made in a week or more, and I only have the headspace now because I have convinced her to go outside the tent and keep watch for her father. He is spending more of his days in the Catafalque Yard, tending to the corpses, but he is bound to come looking, slopping a pail from the Juice Well, and hollering for her.

A section is missing from the miasma here.

"Ahhh," he shouts. "Ahhh!" Why don't you name your child, Mr. Lights? Then she might come when you called.

Another section is missing from the miasma here.

We started the day not far from one of the arterial springs which the aquaphobic Lossians avoid like a plague; we walked around its shining boundary with a light tread. We could still hear a hint of its hot SSSSSSSSS as we doubled back and turned and scuffed at our own tracks. I was exasperated at the agony of this progress; she is a bright girl, and I wonder why would she fall prey to this ritual stupidity regarding paths? It is as if she is scared that something is following her, from birth to death, which can be confounded by burying one's spoor.

Friend had brought a huge bundle of beetroots with her, and walked ahead with them trailing from her arms like shrunken heads, while on her head she wore what I imagined was a wide-brimmed hat, inflexible and taupe. She told me as we went that she had been made to steal them, late at night when the fields were not being watched. The village girl that I have decided to call Lantern, on account of her white hair, has fallen pregnant, and all food stocks are jealously guarded by her kin. In fairness, she needs the nutrients; every day she wanders further afield, up into the mountains and the groves on some pilgrimage that only she and her foetus understand. When she returns she has a voracious appetite, but to me she never grows any larger; if anything, she is getting thinner.

We traversed a scree that had been formed by tumbling rocks from two warring, minor hills above, and it was then that I caught my first sight of the Mother Kilns. NNNNNNNNo, that is not true; I had glimpsed them once before, on the day when it was announced that the local sport, called Passby or something similar had come into season, and a match was about to begin. I am still waiting for that match, and for the sport to fulfil its true purpose; as a scattergraph of a people's fears, boredoms and sensibilities. But I still remember seeing a meal being prepared in celebration, cooked within titanic, shadowy forms billowing smoke under the trees.

Disappointingly, they look smaller close up, and lit by the sun. There were two of them there, in that scree, inexpertly carved from a pumice megalith into the effigies of squatting, tumescent Amazons. Giant women hacked from rock, all four of their nipples snapped off and greased by some prepubescent exploration, and down where their nethers should be, between pillows of cracked, sooty thigh, is a metal tap. There are at least sixteen or eighteen of these kilns around the village, left far away from any structure and always in pairs, facing each other. A lazy fire is kept burning underneath them at all times, though nobody is ever seen to stoke them. When I asked Friend, I could not get a word in between her voice, jingling as it was like coins. As she yapped, she took the hat from her head, placed it as a bowl underneath one of the taps, and turned the handle.

A lurid fat, bright with a buttery glow, churned out of the tip. I looked up at the Kiln's carved face, while Friend's skinny, haired arms went to the tug. It was a serene mix of bitten tongue and sleepy post-coitus, or digestif. Friend filled the bowl from both Kilns, knocking off the long strings of fat with two taps, and set about mixing it with the dainty maul of her fist. It shone like a fish's head when she held it up to me, giggling.

I watched the look of happiness on her face, revelling in how dry the day was. NNNNNo, she is not the most beautiful of women, nothing compared to the temple priestesses of some of the fitter cultures that I have visited, but she has this angry, frenetic something, my favourite word, something something something, which I want more than anything. From her stained teeth, each the colour and size of a baby grape, up to her dark eyes and limp, crackling hair, static at the slightest touch, and to the mole: I want her. The mole fascinates me precisely by its placement; right in the middle of the fleshiest part of the cheek. Moles are traditionally a sign of great beauty, a genetic bindi marking favour, like a cigarette burn from a god. In some places, parents pray for a favourable constellation on their child's skin, and in others women will only choose the most be-speckled for their husbands. Freckles are treated similarly, but with less gravitas; it is the planetary nature of the mole, singular and mighty black, which gives it its divinity. I am certainly not immune to this scar-rified horniness.

It is large and hairy, around the size of an Elysian obol, and she looks beautiful with it. I strike through the last paragraph. She is beautiful!

Just as beautiful as all the others, I am sure of it!! But then, I am not certain what the semaphores of traditional beauty are in Loss; perhaps Friend is just a runt, and they are hiding the truer Helens underground, like blonde grain stored for winter. Certainly, Lantern is more attractive by the definition of most; straight nose, clean teeth, smooth hair, just the right amount of asymmetry. But she will not even look at me, let alone talk at me. So enthralled is she by the birth-quest.

When visiting a new culture, a visitor must always share something. The giving of gifts is paramount, from both the visitor and the native, and if either break this contract dire curses are the only outcome. I have already given so much, but now Friend was cooking a meal for me. I reciprocated with a few herbs from the Seed-jail, some cinnamon and burbage and wartdaly and mumilk. She sniffed them and picked at the buds with hands that needed washing, and I do not think that any of them made their way into our meal.

As she began to chop and dice and splash and clatter about, trying to keep the fat loose in the embers, she told me about the recipes of her forebears, before the monoglut of beetroot upon beetroot upon beetroot arose; apparently there was once an abundance of crops grown, livestock reared, and seasonings and sauces and rouxs and a true cuisine, here, in Loss. Some of the braver ones even fished, from time to time. But things became sparer, the ground less rich, and the taste for beetroot became all-consuming, and of course she does not know why. Nobody has written any of this down, and even if they had, the heroes and heroines and villains would not have been given names. Without them, every story would have slid into a grey gloop, a mass of bodies rubbing past each other at different speeds, with no differentiation between them.

Hnnngh... Perhaps I am not even remembering this properly; it was many hours ago, and I was foal-like with hunger. I think that the meal that followed has hooked out a little of my brain, like an embalmer's finger, when it came up the wrong way. Friend was at times divergent, going off on tangents and stories and legends which had no bearing on what we were speaking of, and I have plucked three courses from those ergodics.

I stole these from her mental cookbook to feed my worst enemies and their children... and the grandchildren of their children...

The fat is implied, and is the base liquor, of every recipe. I am still not sure what they rendered to procure it...

The Nectar Cuff

A Lossian aperitif and accessory, worn only by the most prestigious of dignitaries; as far as Friend told it, the Mayor is the only living townsperson with his own, a very ancient example. I cannot help but feel that I myself should have been garlanded with one. Kanaloa would have given me one; I could barely walk for flowers around my neck when I first stepped onto his white sand.

There is a fruit which was nearly eradicated by the inbreeding of the Lossian diet, but can still be found in the more foetid corners of the valley. It is vastly shrunken, to hear it told, from its previous ripeness; still, they are apparently as wide across as a span of arms, and when they are picked, destoned and sliced into rings, these rings form a sort of ruff which can be worn as decoration.

The fruit oozes juice without maceration, and in the past was the Lossian's main source of liquid, which is unsurprising given their hatred of water. I can only imagine the status of the wearers as great men and women, almost shamans, sucking on their heirlooms in which the juice has fermented into hooch.

I probed Friend tentatively about this practice, and about its origins. I hate to assume, but it is not unfeasible that Praester did make it here, and that on arrival he may still have worn his ruff, drowned and ripped. Greater creatures than the Lossians, have pilfered their culture from elsewhere. I wish that I had more of his Work, and the six fragments in my dunnage do not point to any end other than death somewhere at sea. Hmm.

But I came here, under the sextant of his verse. Is it so impossible that he came too, and left a relic of himself around the necks of Loss' royalty...?

No, she says. I am the first.

But she is very young. The knowledge may be forbidden from her, and though it pains me, yet again, I must always assume a patriarchy, in a place as primitive as this.

The cuff is often sucked at celebrations, births, and deaths, she says, or nibbled to stave off hunger and boredom, and additionally has an antibiotic effect, what Friend calls "the goods".

Lady Balls

From Friend's own mouth, transcribed and interpreted, as I worried about her fingers under the knife:

10 tomb apples, chopped; 80,000 beets, reduced; 15 squeezenuts, powdered; 15 slaughtered scatterbirds, or 1 abbot breast (hunted and diced); Gifted herbs; A quantity of cave salt; Eight thighs' worth of good, clean fat, reduced to silkiness (own or from a lover's middle).

Breast fat, especially from sad girls, is apparently the best; a three month diet of ancestor's liver and random flowers will produce the silkiest lipid. The scatterbird dicings should be boiled for three months to reduce to a golden syrup.

Fry the tomb apples, beetroot, and squeezenuts, and mix every ingredient into balls, which should be left to set and turn white again.

Friend did not know when they were served; the dish reeks of ceremony, or supplications for spirits, but that knowledge has been lost, it seems.

Syzygy Pie

A summer dish, prepared the previous winter... For the pastry: As little water as possible; A quantity of cave salt; Male butter; Grist(?) flour.

For The Filling: Any beast or bird, flying, swimming or crawling, cloven or not, hoofed or tetrapod, still living and sequestered in their own sweat; Beets, dried and grated; More salt.

Mix the pastry and spread, as a base, from the east to west and south and north, up the treeline and from one end of the valley to the other. Make plenty of holes above every dwelling. Crimps can be stomped out by every family. The filling should be caged together, and allowed to maim and eat every other filling in the proper way such things happen. Water every three days, and rub with beets and salt every six days. The temperature will be high enough after two months, and the meat ready to eat after four months. Allow plenty of sunlight back in, and divide the filling, and a roof of pastry, between every diner.

After all this wonder, these parables of disgusting, ogrish meals once dreamed, what I was presented with were beetroots fried in lard. A meal that I have eaten around ninety times, since I came here, and a poor gift. I had half a mind to take back what I have given her. Of course, I vomited, as I have every time, and of course she could not tell; she just smiled lopsidedly, and took my groans to be ones of pleasure.

We ate without cutlery, with our hands, which is the local custom. As always I felt a little affronted; my fingers came away sticky, and I was one with the base fuel, reminded of my needs as a beast. Elsewhere I have been offered lemonwater to wash my fingers after a meal, but here they cram the food into their mouths without pleasure, disgust or reverence. Now, what was it that Parlay said? I am too comfortable to rise and go climbing about my luggage to find the book.

"Cutlery is a psychopomp," or something like that. It provides an intermediary between the more-mortal (the food, about to be swallowed) and the less-mortal (the diner, safe for the moment, the great swallower). Here, the base and elevated intermingle, and the grease glistens on the chin.

An essay, here. One day, when she is a little braver, I will show her a fork, and ask her what she thinks represents the basic human procedure.

I think that I had flattered her, when we sat to eat, and she thought that I was happy, because she agreed to come with me, against her father's wishes, to my encampment outside the village gates. She had been amongst my dunnage before, but never alone. As we walked through them I explained to her what was stored in each, and lied about how to open each one. She ran her hands over the leather, watching the sun set between them, like a henge. A perfect day, all told.

[Yet another lacuna.]

Now this dreadful cook, the worst cook, has grown bored of holding vigil, and wants to crawl in next to me. She is watching me write, thinking that great thoughts are circulating around my cavernous skull. I remember now that I said that I would give her a lesson in what the stars mean, what Praester thought of them, and now she has climbed inside to see them. She is looking at me, right at this moment, over the top of the page, watching my mask for my intelligence, wiping at my tubes with my hanky, but I have far too much to do, and I wil-

The sentence ends without ever being finished, and the page was smudged in purple fingerprints...