When I finally made my first true tour of England, early in my career, I found it completely vaporous, unpoetic, and dead. I had read the fables, of course, the supposed histories by the bright thinkers of mostly every age, had studied the steeplechase tongue, and had even memorised the atlases that professed to chart where it could be found. I arrived in early summer, and by August could not wait to leave with the Bearded Portuguese nao which had hulked me there. Of course, I had not heard of Praester then; when I beached in Wapping he had already departed on the Cornish droll, bound for Scotland and round and around and around. Had I known, I might have chased him.

Instead I decided on a short walk, up to Carlisle, and as I trotted through London, I began what I now consider one of my weakest Works. I should have walked on without noting anything down, without making any pyrings, without a single squidge of red or green or black. I should have known that not every walk, in not every wood, can mean a thing.

The Plague Year became just a dreary encyclopaedia; I took no pleasure in my catalogue. What made such a Augean task necessary, however, and sustained me through its production, was the memory of two vignettes, glimpsed at precisely the same moment, one in each eye. Because of them, that particular London, in that particular summer, had to be imagined, no matter how little I cared for the vulpine, scrabbling thaels which lived there, and their protozoic stories of theft and opportunistic rape and doubly endless fires.

Let me remind myself and my critics, reading now, then, later, when; of those vignettes.

Down the years, they have often accused me of macrophilia.

"Ohhh!" ... They oink and chunder, "why do you have no pen for the inconsequential, and the personal, and the little? Why can you only love the civic? Why not tell the story of the peasants, of the ladies, of the mindless!? Even the story of a king would do; why only the lines of their halls, the angles of their ceilings, the views of their hills? Why only architecture?"

Now I am far off from any such wittering or hindsight, I can make this stain: Imagine the following hypothetical.

Imagine yourself walking through a temple. You see a mural. What is relieved there? Whatever colours the air or earth, I can predict exactly what you would see. The same, immutable processions of dreary bacchanals and perpetual hunts and courtships, trawled forth by a cast net of birch and ivy. You will know it so yawningly, and yet you will be compelled to coo at how meaty it all is. The boredom climbs up and up; if you were to look into the eaves, there would be the gods miniaturised, baublised into nothing. Watch them, joylessly clacking their ivory parts together, for the amusement of you, the hypothetical!  I am toothless with it. I have seen it all before, in each eye. I have imagined it in every configuration.

Now, imagine stepping back and gawping at the columns on which these quotidians are preserved, and then back again, swinging your rump, out to the temple they support, the avenue, the district, the city, the island, the world. You can always imagine another, slight space behind yourself, from which to garner some perspective.

Architecture is all. Everything else is only mortals in heat.

Hunnnnnn.

I digress, separately from my own digression, and it reminds me- My arm aches.

I think that most of the preparations have been made, most of the latches closed.

Not yet, but soon, when I have finished this catalogue, I will need to climb out of this stinking, dying abscess of a geography, before whatever sickness is killing the town of Loss finds its way past my seals and filters and guards and plunders me, as well. I have caught myself thumbing through my Pilot's Book, when taking my afternoon repaste, dreaming of clean seas, brushed of refuse. As of now, right now, no now, now, now, I would estimate that half the town is smoke, and more are piling up every day.

What will I take?

What will I leave?

Hunnnnnnn-nnnnngh...

I digress on a digression on a digression!  PILES!

This reminds me.

London

I met a noblewoman who had stolen down from Islington to hang her tiny heir, upright by the chest, in the flow of the Thames. She had never even stolen things as a girl, but now she took a skiff's rope and his grandmother's scarves to bind him in place. Her husband had taken all the cord with him, when he left.

What she hoped was that one day, soon, despite never having done a washerwoman's day in her life, that the death would be soaked out of him.

She was very, very boring. I took my leave before she could ask me to go again, to see what remained of her son. I did her an absolute kindness by not telling her that he had still been alive when she brought him down in her sedan, and lashed him to a rotten mooring.

As I walked, I counted the yellow necks, like the spent skin of poultry, so soaked in lemon juice that they would never get rid of the smell, and evolution would become addled by the scent and pass it on to their children.

When the warships went out, they revealed beaches made of bones, pigs, dogs, horses, men and women all raffled together. There were never any skulls to be found.

Too many pulexic stories! All ground up into that grey cereal that hung about the streets that summer. I imagined that fresh air would do me good, and tried to rise above the clouds. Though I would be going north, ultimately, that day I instead climbed the hill south to Blackheath, to see the church there, to glut myself on its grandeur. I am sure the critics will be squealing now, in delight and bullying.

My route from the river took me up through Greenwich Forest, with its oaks and the Roman ruins left to the pigs rutting in their stylobates. But as I came out of the low leaves and the weeping galls, onto the heath itself and the church, each socket in my mask found a completely different architecture.

A stack of dogs and pigs, taller than the spire. A complex of birds and cows wider than the Transept.

All dead, all legs a dessert pink.

All clubbed by ignorant rubes, believing that they were to blame for the plague.

All collected here, from all across London, and built as gates, onto the world's yard.

A slurry of animals, all left to seep into the soil at a rate intimately attached to the rain, whenever it would come, that summer.

I am glad that that particular London is gone, now.

If I am a macrophile, then I am glad of the designation. How can one compare a drowned baby, ticking into coldness on the Embankment grass, to these ziggurats? A single dead man is nothing. There have been millions and millions and millions. There has only ever been one gate where dogs, and cats and pigs and cows have been the mortar. I was poleaxed by the statement that day. I have never been anywhere that pork has been a myth, and have seen thousands of animals killed, mostly in my name, but now they take on new footprints. Deeper. Wider. More important.

I will not be ashamed of finding beauty in the enormous. All those tiny miseries, between which I have been strung, have made me immune to anything slighter. It took two vernacular architectures to make me weep, that day, and here in Loss it took only one, tapping at my window.

Loss

I should have known that this would happen, eventually. I suppose that I should be pleased that they did not extinguish themselves before I arrived here and captured what little they have to catch. Perhaps it was somebody's unique stupidity, a pair of unwashed hands in the wrong hole, an unnatural coupling in the woods, a rotten tooth left unpulled too long, a brace of beetroot gone woody in the middle. Whatever it is, something has come amongst them.

It began amongst the children, some months ago, with fevers and stiffness. They became withdrawn, complained of aching jaws, tender backs, of collapsing to all fours at all hours of the day, grizzling to parents who did not listen. Most of them died within a week, and their bodies disappeared into the Catafalque Yard, whose threshold I had never crossed in all my time here, until yesterday. I knew that it was some sort of cemetery, but had given it no name out of respect, and hope, for what few beliefs I thought that this people might nurture. I had only ever seen Mr. Lights enter, by himself, and he still is the ferryman, pulling in corpses by elbow or the head, oddly squeamish for a gravedigger. At first it was the naked bodies of the children, dumped by their blank, abusive parents. I had heard them howl in the days before, and when they lay there I saw the wide, heavy bruises across their backs. They looked like the sores a saddle leaves behind.

Even then, with the knowledge that these rubes had tried to thump the sickness out of their dying children, I felt very little. Another plague, and a subdivision of cruelties.

I could smell their hair burning, every time I removed my mask; Mr. Lights seems to been cut to fit his new purpose as incinerator, as if he had been making fire all his life, and I imagine that even now he is authoring new rites behind the high walls of the Yard. Parlay would be pleased; the people of Loss have come into their own as a people, right here at the end.

The Mayor has kept the rest of them to their homes. I have heard whispers between the cells when I walk of an evening; some blame the weevils, some blame me, some the gods. There are so few left, and they hide from me if I try to speak to them. I have been sympathetic until now, and three days ago retreated to my luggage to permit them what mourning they can muster. Each evening I have left a fresh bundle of herbs against the gate, in the hope that they will gum up some accidental concoction on their fingertips, doodle at their gums, idly, and somehow cure themselves. I have seen lax, chewed cuds, as they potter back and forth from the fields to their houses to the Yard, but some of those same masticators are now dead, and I imagine that I am useless.

Yesterday, I began gathering small inconsequentials from my luggage to cheer them. Tiny clays from Ur, mummified bread, masks and mask and masks; I have tried to make it clear, when one of them approaches my gates in curiosity, that I do not require anything in exchange. They always bolt and waddle, though, when they see me appear at the corner of a case. I am ill from their ingratitude, their superstitions without any art to them! Why can they not be more like the Hyperboreans, so greedy with my treats, or-

wild for that cut red glass that I had gathered by the armfuls in Herculaneum, leaving behind only the chaff of obsidian? Cut red glass! Worthless, and yet they lapped it up like jewels! Why can't Loss civilise just a piece, and see that I am trying to ease their passing?

Unfortunately, I grew angry with this peeping nonsense, and shut the gifts back up. I closed a few more latches, battened down the Seedjail, and broke a little more of my camp. I was almost too exhausted with the hauling to go into the town after dark, as had become my custom, but I forced my thighs this way, then that way. This time, I would find my way into the Catafalque Yard, and carry something elegant out of this mess; an account of a funeral.

Rituals have a way of leaking out of keyholes and past walls and down the streets when death comes; they may sequester everything else from me, these primitives, but they cannot hide the light of their fires at night.

The whole, sorry settlement was empty, the houses as dark as they had ever been. Tradition had been broken everywhere, and new paths and desire lines thick and thin criss-crossed each other in the dirt, and wound out into the scrub beneath the trees.

I braved the pinae's canopies, and it was there, in the soupier night, that I found the Execution Venn. It had been scuffed out and repainted yet again, shrunk down and with new segments. The last time I had seen it, its edges extended nearly all the way to the residential district, and for weeks everybody had stayed indoors, terrified that they would be murdered if they stepped beyond the line. I never understood the practice, never saw anybody sacrificed for stepping inside any of the rubrics.

I continue my theory that somebody is doing this deliberately; maintaining the appearance of a system, the illogic beneath it leading to misunderstanding, fear and stasis amongst the population. The easiest way, amongst leaders, to invoke herding; ... I will corner the Mayor, and reveal my hypothesis.

Two men now stood in the darkness around the edge, watching its depths. From the little peeps of glow around their mouths I knew that they had worked out what to do with the weed that I had given them. I did not recognise either of them, and when I stepped out of the shrubs they did not look up, or thank me. They did not holler or grow bestial as I crossed the Venn, stepping in every segment, waiting for them to try and slay me. I did not feel their eyes on me as I continued up the slope, through the starless canopy. They were nothing, two more without a story to spark between them.

I saw, -- dancing before me -- that noblewoman and her son in London once again. But it was not a nightmare.

Eventually I beached against the high stone walls that encircled the Catafalque Yard, the penumbra of flames trading along its sheer edge. It is solid, uncut, and studded with alcoves, though I could not see any columbarium, ivy or memento mori. There was no lychgate, no ceremonial arch, no parade, no Kingswalk; only a slight fault in the rock, too narrow for any procession or wake. I slipped through, head-first, to stand before rising terraces, like Karnak, each spangled with a pyre. The entire town was there, burning its dead, and all I felt was the weight of the times before; the blackening of the Owl House, the yawns of IMOK as the lights guided her to bed, burning Darger in his room with his dying drafts as kindling.

You see? It has happened before and before and before. Even one hundred of them, all arrayed before me as they were then, is not quite enough.

Away from me ran the soil, well-turned and abundant, though no dead worm it. The grass has grown in mattocks thick with their own matrices, and I stumbled my way up the slope, keeping to the aurora of each and every fire. Around each stood a eulogy of three or four, all of them adults. They seemed like small remembrances of families, a synapse snapping taut in each of them, but, of course, they were not touching. They stood awkwardly, boorishly, with no sort of threnody.

I imagined that, despite the transmogrification that death requires, especially so much of it at once, that the mourners were still wearing that moribund purple, but the flames were too high, and the smell was too awful, and the silhouettes too stark. None of the corpses still had integrity; they had leaked down into fuel for their own wicks, a fused remnant of their pubis and pelvis.

Between each of them ran Mr. Lights. I knew it was him, from the taper of the legs; in his arms he carried bundles of sticks, with which he stoked each fire. I don't imagine that any of the mourners spoke to him, and when he turned back up the slopes, I followed him, leaving the fires to their distant rippling. The upper terraces were dark, and cold in the valley wind; we were no longer sheltered by the walls. I remember looking back, and imagining the fires as punctures in the night's cloth. That particular phrase, "the night's cloth", I remember inventing it, just in that moment; I think that I was trying to conjure some sympathy in my own gizzard. After all, I am used to seeing the world through punctures.

When I turned back I could not see him, and as I wrung the lights out of my eyes, I caught only his pattern in the night, the bundled sticks on his back, and for a moment I imagined that he was in mid-air. The sticks made poor wings, and as perspective returned I saw that he was climbing the flank of a gigantic, wooden statue. A colossa, a ricketbacker built up against the mountain behind, a scaffold of purple cloth in the shape of a woman.

And that was when I wept, not just for the size of it, but who I thought it represented.

I promised that I would not mention her at all, anymore. That I was finished with her childishness. I have not seen her in a week. She avoids me, furious at the letter to Rosetto that she found. I have forgiven her for breaking into my luggage. I forgiven her for hitting me, for trying to rip clean my mask, for whisking off to the father she seemed to hate so much and sequestering herself in his smugness. I have forgiven her for coming back to me, a smile on her face, rubbing my shoulders, and playing with my chestnuts, as she always liked to do, and when my back was turned, pulling me over, trying to lie me down, when she knew full well what it would do to me.

I have forgiven her for everything. I love her.

For a moment, I even loved him. I have been waiting for months for an altercation, our battle, a drama which this lifeless little place sorely requires. It would give them the just-sos they are lacking, the morals they require, the gasps that their mouths have never stretched for. But now I loved him, as I was sure he loved his daughter. He was wrapped in a paean-cloak of purple cloth, like the Stoat Prince had swaddled himself in last year's ermine, and was constructing a naive memorial to her.

She was dead. I was sure.

He had clambered up onto the statue's bent knee, and hand over fist along its outstretched arm, forty feet above the ground. He dragged his livid carriage all the way along the ridge, to where a balustrade claw was clasping at the higher airs, weathervane-ing without fingers. The wooden rafters of the hand, all that trickery usually hidden, was denuded, but before he draped the cloth across it as a sort of skin, he began lashing down longer fingers, adding foot after foot to them. I half-expected him to tie a sprig of myrtle when he was done.

I saw now what Mr. Lights is, and what he means. He is not the custodian of the dead, some burakumin to be reviled and avoided. He does not bury them, or have any more to do with them than their careless families.

He is an architect.

Those facades down in the town, the empty boxes that they use to keep out the murderer rain, are not their real houses. Every day, death or not, he spirits himself up here, to extend, to widen, to add spires and cupolas and apses, growing his ancestors and his late neighbours out from the extremities into spindlier and spindlier accommodations. As I stepped forward, more and more resolved themselves, out of the floating ash, the older memorials almost as high as the mountains, built crouched or standing, their gestures, incalculable in the circumference, showing them as men, or women, and then I could see the particular drape of her face...

It was not her.

I still remember the questions that I asked myself, standing before that gargantua, that memorial that could never have been for Friend. It flapped around the jowls where hers were slender and downy, had no scar across the lip, flashed saturnine eyes when hers were merely martial.

I shall record them here, for future consideration.

1. Where is she, then, if she is not dead?

2. How can I not see them, from anywhere in the valley, on any day?

3. Why burn the body, and not these pyres, mortared with natron?

Questions for another mind.

Mr. Lights continued like this, unaware of my haunting, horking like a walrus from the smoke and the effort of dragging all that meat vertically. In that moment, I forgave him everything he had piled on me, an honoured guest, in my time in Loss. I forgave him his threats of lying me down for good. I forgave him his rebellion, his indictments, his rousing amongst the simpler bulk. I forgave him his suspicions from the start, stood before the gate in his greatcloak, his daughter under its roof.

I forgave utterly and completely this sole creator in all of Loss, this dour and ignorant wright. If he will not let me love his daughter, I will love him, instead.

I clacked off, up into the antiquary darknesses, hoping that the chime of my nuts would not give me away. Most of these bonfires, shivering with the potential of ignition, depicted fat men. An inevitability in any society. The cloth constantly buffeted in the wind, and here and there it jeered through the scaffolding of old women, starving when they died, aeons ago. In hamlets at their feet were dilapidated heaps the size of cottages: children.

I tugged at the skeins as I went, wishing that I had brought something sharp with me. I have still not confirmed my suspicion that somewhere, deep inside these circus-tholos, are the original remains, dried and twisted, and that something transubstantiated lies on the flames in their place. To use fire for anything other than warmth requires a lateral state of mind. I was there, in Gondal, when they caught the brush-fires, roaming devourers more like wolf than gas, and herded them onto the beaches, where they made the glass that clothed their first cities. Here, they don't have the same invention.

In my short time in the Catafalque Yard, before I saw the true nature of the statue, I had made my peace with her death, and even afterwards, for some reason, could not quite let go of that imagination; my brain had been configured to her being gone, of some slot once filled being empty, and could not be convinced otherwise so easily When somebody you love dies, it is

[Missing text.]

exiling myself here, year after year, as myself and Mr. Lights survived all of this plague, whatever it might be, and built her up together. Her memorial would begin small, like her, and then as we veiled her and strutted her in more and more skittering angles, she would become the size of a hall, a home, a complex, a castle, an arena, complete with two sad gladiators. And after she was as large as gravity would allow, that this world could manage without collapsing, we would baldly, plainly, fight to the death. I would kill him, of course, bow to no audience, and then take my knife, cut a doorway into her Achilles' Heel, and pass up through the stairways inside her that he and myself had built. I would find a hollow somewhere in there, one that kept me drowsy, and snuggle down forever.

I have searched for her all day today, to see if I consider her differently, with this prophecy built up around us. She is such a small thing, and perhaps she could stand to grow a little bigger.

As all my critics know, I like big women.  I remember, I remember, Bluetit Joan had--

Blue-Tit Joan...

I like to tell Joan's story, if only because it is so very neat; the myths that we made are being taught to children even now, I imagine. I never finished my Work on her rather public pleasures, and so I will tell it here, finally. I imagine that it changes, every time I tell it, but I have never had the nous to check. She brought that sybaritic laziness out in me; our time together was ever so simple, the most classical of tales.

The Romans had loved her in their centuries. She wandered back and forth across Kernow, making new valleys every time she fiddled with herself. They called her Bluetit because the birds liked to roost on her shoulders, and in the winter her nipples dragged on the cold sand around what would become Porthtowan. When I found her, on one of my walks out from Dintagel, she had almost lost one to frostbite, and when she asked me to blow on them I had no choice but to oblige. The dour old king, I forget his name, had sent me slay her, but he had always been paranoid, and hornless; he thought that she meant to eat them all. However, I came to learn that she was a most discerning feaster.

At first, I was just a mute comforter to her, but as we talked she told me about Lyonnesse, where the glaciers had stranded her. I had heard the stories before, from others, but I listened, down on the beach, as she plucked out the seams of tin from the ground and threw them in the sea, so the king would never find them. One day, as she teased out a last glimmering cigar of cassiterite, I found that I had come to love her. She was terribly homesick, and made sad by this land of men who meant to send armies to ravage her in regiments, or bind her to a tiny prince that she did not love in return.

And so I led her, by the tit, rubbing it between my hands, west and back into the land, away from the sea. As we walked she talked again, about how her uncle was the tomb for the King of England, and all that the old fool in Dintagel wanted was another dolmen for himself. We stopped for a time amongst her fellows, in Salisbury, and she held a memorial for them, a long song that took all of September. The seasons followed us, and some nights the snow fell. I picked berries from the mountain ash, if we found it, and when she crossed her legs to eat, I would climb up inside, where it was almost too hot to touch, just to catch a little sleep...

It was the first time that I had been a parasite, and I have never again had the opportunity. It was wonderful.

But Friend is not dead, or yet gigantic. She is hiding from me, somewhere out amongst the trees; not in her cell, not amongst the Mother Kilns, not down by the river, where she was doing so very well. She had come to hate everybody around her, had practically begged to leave. She still will not take to reading or writing, not even in what I remember of the Latin script, but there will be time on the road.

There were other victories. A week ago, when her father was burning the Mayor's son (a little turd, who we both hated), she had strode into the river up to her waist. She became the colour of frozen cream, and puffed out her rhinarium in a stifled scream, but there she was, in the first bath of her life. Such progress!

When I returned to my luggage last night, and settled into my cloak to sleep, I imagined that I might dream of striding women, of cathedrals built of ranked perineums, their cruxes too high for me to touch, of Friend climbing out of all of this with me; I cannot remember whether any of it came to pass, in my overburdened brain.

But I do remember waking this morning. It was near light, and the whole valley was full to the rim with smoke; the blunt sun was trying to agitate a dawn.

I felt a tap across my eye.

When I opened them, I saw it on the glass; a serpentine bundle of staves, a huge arm, hung throughout the trees by scraps of cloth, and sweeping all the way back through the gates of the town. Mr. Lights had been working through the night, and here was the result, left to wake me when the wind blew it. The old scarecrow, the old woman who I thought had been Friend, my sweetest, angriest, best Friend, had grown exponentially.

The staves ended in a single trunk lashed to the handle of my tallest luggage, and there, knocking against my mask's eyeholes, was a nail of bark, accusing me of something incalculable.

He, apparently, has not forgiven me yet.
