I was carving all sorts of cutlery  (as Parlay said: they make the best sort of "psychopomp") when I heard that screaming, which is now becoming dull on its twelfth pass of the valley. Doppler would have loved it here, but it is just making me angrier and angrier. At first I was concerned, shocked even, at its raggedness, the hopelessness of it but now I can more or less follow its passage with my eye in the most unremarkable way. It is hopping down the rubble to what I thought was the North, but now I am not so sure.

I have often thought that mountains are just piles of rubble for whose fall we were not present, and so we arrogantly say that they have always been there, or have come from below after some great "disturbance." It is almost as if we are angry that we are not tectonic or global enough to affect them. I for one am not held beholden to them; they are only a midden dryer than most, a deposition of sherds.

All rock has fallen from somewhere.

Now the scream is coming down to the treeline, and getting confused amongst the branches. Somewhere out there is where the walls begin or end. The wood that comprises it is more like bone; I can easily imagine the achingly slow progress, the bored panic of small fires, the countless generations waiting until their town is safe. But what I cannot understand is why they would build it like this.

A wall serves an immediate need, but this one, this must have taken hundreds of years, to look as dead as it does! It is almost as if they grew it to look just so ancient for the day that I arrived here. It extends further than I can walk without nearly collapsing from the effort, and there is no break in the fuse of branches and trunks and funerary leaves. Most of them are yew, a tree which pumps the light out of anywhere it is found. The darkness comes on so quickly under there, as you walk. Beneath their perpetual canopies, in amongst the husks and bare dirt, mushrooms grow upwards in bare shelves, unsupported. I wish that life was a little more free of chemistry, and that I could eat them, or use them to climb up and over. I think I am coming to that point where my stomach is poking holes in itself. A month is a long time not to eat, but I am observing my own rules. I am the kindest visitor they are likely to have, and I will not remove my mask any more, unless I absolutely have to.

The scream has cleared the treeline, and is building in speed and horror to whisk past me, and the gate, and my camp for the last 29 days. Parlay's thoughts about Troy are even more relevant now; I am sat here like an ornament, a gift that nobody will accept. I have not seen a head above the parapet, or heard anything apart from that scream carouselling over and over. Yes, I am tired, I am not afraid to admit it; I have travelled further than anyone still living, to be here.

Here before the gate is a new meadow, the grass anaemic and startled, as until recently it was all old-growth forest. Thousands of pines have been felled and their bark shocked white by the experience, and I have been here so long that I have begun to name the peculiar avenues that they create. I have camped in what is now known as --  this part is redacted -- Boulevard.

The name of the boulevard has been crossed through several times in the previous sentence.

The felling must have been recent, and sudden; the wood still has that vibration that those sensitive enough can still feel when great destruction has occurred. The regularity of it, stretching from the gate and up to where the rock becomes too steep for seeds, reminds me of a fossilised parade ground. Such places were never designed for individuals; here I feel like the tiny man-crumb that I am, the meat-kindling which came into this dangerous landscape of his own volition. What an awful place! I feel like I could be pestled at any "moment."

There it goes: battering the walls of my tent, or my cloak. I "suppose" it is my tent now that I have run out of walking. The cloak is a tool of travel, really; as I went through the world it provided me with a shield against the dust and rain, and a way to disguise my sag. At night, I ascended into it like a bat into its ceiling, but I am starting to see, if not flaws, then a kind of  philosophical conflict there.

If I wish to sleep in it, I have to pull in my head, raise my arms and then squat down, my cranium resting against the ground. And there I have to stay, if I want to keep the weather off,  and why should the weather matter to somebody like me? It is all I can do not to choke. There is no way for me to extricate myself and drive in guylines, and if I wish to rest my arms, the walls of the tent slacken and I lose all semblance of space. It falls into a wet bag. I have never felt at home in it, and it was a waste of money, I think.

But, then again, any time my arms have started to tire, or I have felt my head  swilling like a brandy glass, I think back to when it was newly-made, unmildewed and I was young. I was in Bjarmaland, and the Beormas had made me, if not a king, a sort of cautious trickster in their pantheon. They thought that I was some sort of giant wounded spirit-bird, come down from the ocean above. I had only been looking for Pyjamaland, a very different sort of questing.

That girl – what was her name? "Guri?" Gunnvor? "Gudrun???" -- was a sacrifice, and I was supposed to eat her. When she came to me she was done up in brown silk:  for the Beormas, a mark of death... and her hair had been shaved off. I held up my tube to her ear, to explain myself, and then took her inside my cloak and my tent, and showed her the meaning of all the stars. She had told me that her people thought that the light were those of boats trying to catch them on their lures.

And here it comes again. The sixteenth time, and it has now hijacked the unique acoustics of the defiles through which I entered a month ago. They were inbred, those depths, the trees still singular and hideous, somehow. No chance on any interesting cross-pollination. I hated it there, and was so pleased when I came down the slope and into this place; more fool me.

I cannot help wondering, as it fades away again, whether this ululation is meant for me. I cannot presume that, in this culture, such an agitation of the vocal chords is necessarily an expression of pain or suffering. Perhaps here it means something quite different, and they are merely letting me in on some excitement. I cannot presume to help someone who may, instead, be preparing a celebration for my arrival. It is possible to be too gallant. Maybe they have realised what I am; I am used to the ignorant changing their minds about me. I try to imagine what they would see if they were looking down at me. If we assume sea level, the distance up to a person's eyes is around five feet or so, or maybe four foot nine for a woman. Let's assume a woman; I like to be watched. At that height, the female eye -- unimpeded by tears -- can see for around two and a half miles. But our screamer has the advantage of greater altitude, I think, given the volume of the scream, maybe two thousand feet, and so she can most likely see between fifty and one hundred miles. In that case, they would have no trouble watching me, wandering up and down the avenues, statuesque even at that distance, going about my bizarre business and then, as night fell, crouching down, facing the mountains, and pulling that great cloak around me, and lighting up like a flirtatious insect, my rump pulsing with sore reactions, trying to coax somebody out through that gate, or to let me through.

The Mollosscus is an interesting trick. It leaves me so sore, but it has worked in Agartha, and Camelot, also, and the second time I went to Iona and they made a lighthouse of me. I can adjust the itch to produce whatever colour is spiritually positive to my quarry, but here I have no research to fall back on. I have settled for ten short bursts, in a colour semaphore which I hope means:

I AM A FRIEND TO ALL OF YOU. LET ME IN. LET ME IN. LET ME IN.