Fragment One

Finally, we are draining down the slopes of the ocean! I was beginning to get sick from seeing nothing but humans every day, all day. Even meals do not contain an entire creature to break the monotony. Today's dinner was three arms each of a starfish, in a broth of its own womb. What they do with the trunks, I do not know.

When they broke the surface, the two whale looked like elbows, setting themselves defiantly on the breakfast table. Twenty or so of the sailors rose from their duties, and the translator rushed towards the aft'c'sle. I think that he was panicking over the omen. They bowed at our passage, and let us strut past them. I was not surprised to see this obeisance; the whale is another creature that understands the agony of having a lifelong mission.

Today is a new turn day. I am ready to start afresh with it, to eat differently, to sleep differently, to do everything differently. Of course, without the map I cannot be certain that it is a new turn day, but it has been so long since we turned the ship that the day must be approaching in any case. By terms of our agreement the captain has the map, and I am afraid that I cannot stop myself worrying that he will misread it, and we will sail straight for good. He grasped it so roughly when I came aboard, and with such a greedy man I am also afraid that he will constantly be looking for his next napkin, and find it there on the chart table. But, of course, I cannot offer him my advice, speaking no Portuguese. I am ill with trying to express myself. I would rather never try again.

From the colour of the ocean, that chilly fandango in the mornings and chipped green in the evenings, I think that this might be the Salmont, and if I can remember the map correctly we should turn southeast and towards land again. After that, when the gauges of the wheels are checked and fitted, it might be at least another week before we are on our way again, towards our next turn.

The only way I would receive any instruction is if I found Jenny in amongst the stacks and brought her out on one of the cloudless nights she likes so much.  Where is she, though? With her feet in the bilge, or was she loaded last? As far as I can remember she was in Dunnage #232, so I imagine that she is up high, just like the cherry after which she made me name her. And even if I did have the captain's key, and could open every container on this ship, what would happen to her? Would they be scared of her, throw her into the ocean, and tie me to the divining mast like a topgallant?

Fragment Three

There's a genital crisis aboard. It's a rare thing aboard any ship, so aching with men; but I must keep quiet about it, if I am to study it. On one periphery there is a young engine lout, a boy of only twenty-two, who apparently is unreliant on sleep. Despite having a fairly expressive lip he seems cocky, a silent observer of the captain's family. There's a traditional rivalry between them, not so uniquely Portuguese at all, and the boy seems to see what I see when I look at the captain's scarred belly. He has taken to pulling at the fly of the wigwam and whispering at her ring-finger. I hear a crystalline little warning to match the beads being pulled back. He is persistent,  and she is certainly very, very lonely.

Fragment Five

Phonetic Record Of Captain's Unneeded Outcry (Recorded Manually By A Monoglot)

[rough translation from Portuguese to English]

You! My head! My head! You're going to help me! It's fucking crippling my brain!  I don't care about this, I've got my own problems, you know? I can't understand a thing through that mask, though!  I'm trying to save us but... we are terrified of what my wife is facing out here! There is no containing them, I mean, you come here   ... and they are going to unleash their tin teeth!

Addendum: I had to leave him after that. I made my way down the stairs, and out onto the rasp-dry deck, and finally in amongst the steely damp of the cargo containers. I ran my knuckles along the ribbing of each one, and imagined which smells would be trying to bond with the rubber of my head right now; the curried rust, the wockishness of the electric fans, the halitose meltwater dripping from containers overhead, stacked in a way that the captain believes is efficient.

I took my constitutional around one of the arbitrary street corners created by this jumble, where I came upon a container at deck level, unlocked and the door ajar, something that I had searched for ever since I boarded. I slipped inside without thinking, though for a moment I thought that my forehead would get trapped in the narrow slit. The darkness was a tautology, and not worth mentioning  (of course it would be dark, here of all places) but as I gingerly made my way to the back I had the most curious synaesthesia. I felt the rrff-rrff of old wood beneath my feet, the sound of dry flesh on dry flesh, such as when you grip the arms of an old bench that lives in a patch of sunshine. I knelt down and scooped a handful of something up, and retreated into the light to inspect it. I almost could not believe my luck.  Chestnuts! A whole spoilt cell of them, ready for me to process! I will need to rewrite all my requests, all my bills and promises.

The container had none of my possessions, but with the chestnuts, I no longer have to ask the captain to make landfall.  His ship is safe again.

Fragment Six

Dinner was Elizabeth Pearl lobster baked into the mouth of a suckling pig, its teats pinched by eight more lobsters,  one for each of the crew who had helped bring the translator's body down from the crow's nest...

Fragment Seven

There has been a peculiar little ceremony tonight, with all the humility and stupidity of true sailors. It is good to see something so human after all this time alone with them...

Two of the lookouts, giddy from altitude, came to my cabin and lifted me firmly from the bedside and out onto the deck. I was furious with them, because they had not knocked and my mask was only half-fitted. They had the honour of hearing the vibration of my throat unadulterated, as I called at them in broken Portuguese to stop, get away, beware, beware, beware. I will have to remind the captain what such a mistake would entail...

I had not brought my cloak topside due to their haste, and I felt the cold of the gun deck, bare like a tennis court, across which we strode and into the throngs of coloured bulbs hung about the towers of cargo. I thought for one colder moment that they had discovered the open chestnut container and meant to shut me up in it. But we took three lefts, two rights and went straight down a canyon to the very nugget of it all, where the oldest, most gigantic chests can be found.

Everybody aboard was there. The captain had even allowed his wife out into open air for the occasion, though she did not look happy to be stood there next to him, like somebody had plucked a snail from its shell and it was embarrassed by its mucus. Somebody I did not recognise had found an old flugelhorn and was playing what sounded like Branco's Second Symphony dropped a few keys and rapped into sharpness. The captain stood on an orange crate in front of a vast container, twice as large as any I had seen. I think it may once have been eggshell blue, but the rust and fleck had started at its points and worked its way in everywhere. It was ruinous; I could not tell how old it really was. In his hand was something that I had waited the entire voyage to see, a slender metal rod topped with what looked like a hooked nose. He gave a short speech, and then spun on his heel, digging the rod into the container's lock, which, as I had deduced correctly, was designed to nuzzle with that nose. The doors were hauled open, and just inside was a crumbling wall of what looked like brown sand, dust pouring off in little toffeed drifts. There were holes drilled all across it, but they were too regular to be the work of insects. The men around me surged forward, and began digging and prying at it, breaking off great chunks in their hands and stuffing it into their mouths.

It seems that the captain feels that it is time to bring out the Ship's Biscuit.

With all this tonight, and the banquet we feasted on later, I believe that I have deciphered the captain's intent. He began our voyage with the dregs, as if we were starving. But now the seas are becoming rougher, and the turns come more frequently and we get closer and closer and quicker and quicker, he reveals his secret. I could almost believe that he keeps the food sequestered in his own stomach, taking scrapes of butter one by one, a wheel of cheese from under one tit after our third month, and the meat we always thought was part of him in larger and larger portions. I have a respect for him, after all this time; no man under his command will ever starve, and when we pull into whatever port awaits us, we will be more than we were when we left port, one way or another.

I am so full I feel unwell. If I could move, I would throw every container into the water just to find the Christmas Pills, somewhere in the Dunnage #100s, if I remember...
