And now, now, finally now I have finished my first stroll, fifteen days without stopping, and I have reached this perverted place more tightly bound than I have ever been before. Every scrap of paper and parchment and silk that I carry and that is spare has gone to the task of splinting my entire body, and every stiff step applauded itself with the clack, clack, scrrrl, clack, clack, scrrrl of the last of my charcoal. It has taken me three hours to unravel myself, and another two to convince my back that it was evolved to bend that way, and sit.

This is not really the worst of it, however. The agony comes in deciding upon how to start my Great Work. Which word will suit that first intake of breath the best? What sentence will set me in amber? I did mean for the first thing that I wrote in this book to be something profoundly airy, but I have resolved to record everything during my time in Loss, and so these notes will be my first entry. As I write I cannot help pausing to drag the cover shut with both hands, and run my gloves over its binding, and imagine how it must feel. At least I can look over the inlay, and the symbols carved there, the thickness of the wood and the titillation of the leather. It is certainly a handsome thing. I would be content to lean against it, and never write in it again. But a book like this puts a certain undulation into your brain.

I will follow the Great Quail's example, and begin my story with a pain.

My left toe feels as if it has been nearly severed at the root; my boots are nothing more than calf's tongues, and I have used all of my casein to monochrome the heat in my joints. By this morning all I could do was waddle and try and lift my straight legs as high as I could. I felt like a bundle of spears. By the afternoon, my cudgel feet had worn down to true stumps, only worthy of ottomans, and my back was cantilevered over itself. When you are at sea for so long, you forget what it is like when materials connect, rather than riding over one another. It feels as if you will never touch anything again.

I am broken, and starting to die. I need to find a way to introduce myself to water! Some food! I need to find a way inside!

Stopping and sitting has given me the chance to look back to the first step down into the surf from the beached Sorgo, I remember being worried that the whole ship would keel onto its side and crush me, after the significance of that step. I was the only one who had gone to any trouble; I had cleaned myself as best I could, laid out my last tin of abalone to thank them, and painted my boots and shins in celebration. The colour was true ultramarine, the end of the sea, and I hissed up the pebbles of beach in wide strides (that feeble pigment has since fumed off).

None of the crew came to wave me ashore, after all that we had seen together, and after all that I had shown them, not even her who I had shown such kindness. They craned my luggage overboard as quickly as they could, and retreated back into their cabins, to wait for their ship to rust away completely. As I mounted the beach, I noticed broad windows of mullioned sea-glass set there, the rooms behind them dark and flooded.

I will admit it, now. I think that I am a safe distance away. I did fall in love with the captain's wife. She was awful, really, so sour and gnarled in that way some women become. But who can blame her, pickled in that wad of men? I certainly did not. I was her only Friend aboard that ship, and she treated me like her own personal Grendel. My time aboard the Sorgo with her was not entirely unprofitable, however. I came to the conclusion very quickly that one should not dream, if one can help it. It bores everything, especially our own senses. She could not even feel the hair growing on her lip, she was so lost.

I promise you now that nothing I write in this work, in its entire length and breadth, will be a dream. I rely too much on my own senses, or rather what I can salvage of them. And I know exactly what is real and what is not, because of the awful pain that the real causes me.

But there has been such pain already, the very worst pain of my life. Today, I had to leave Jenny behind. The amount of luggage that I brought with me off the Sorgo was a little excessive, I must admit. One hundred pieces were just left in the surf where they had fallen, and the rest has been dragged behind me, giving me a dry trail that I can no longer use. First to be abandoned was the Elibeary, then the S-Words, and then I even had to let the Wunderkammer down onto the ground. I left that propped up against a tumulus to provide a fascinating hostel for whatever passes for birds here. I stood a little taller without it, though now I miss how it held my head while I slept.

And then I had to stop again, and grit my teeth at how much she was hurting me. I had managed to keep her strapped to my back for the entire week, but she was weighing me down more than anything else; it is all the fat that she put on in the World To Come...

I agonised for most of the morning about where to leave her. I crawled past the horny woods, and the baked ground where she would not get wet again, and eventually I chose the base of a tree whose fruit was the size of a Dark Age globe, and leathery like knees. Fruit had been without a doubt her favourite food, though it always gave her a terrible stomach ache. I propped her on her hind legs, and made sure that her doors were shut properly, and that nothing could nest in her. I socketed onto her neck for one last time, and then rose. I have never felt so awful that when I turned away from her. I said goodbye as best I could, but there was something in both of our throats. She has been so useful to me ever since I met her, and I will always remember cuddling up to her, nuzzling into that volcanic chest, finding my way in amongst her hot jewels, letting her tell me what the stars mean, and finally saying "Jenny, I will never lose you again."

Well, I had to lose her this time. She was too heavy. Her weight had never bothered me, but others have called her "stupid cow", or "mutton cupboard", and all sorts of other, awful things when I took her with me.

I liked the way her breasts hung. I liked that her mouth was always full of food. I liked that she always told me that everything was alright, and I believed her...

I cried until I could not see her behind me any more; when I got some miles off, she looked like a folly, as if she had always been there. She had that sort of presence. I wonder what eye will settle on her next? I would never have got here without her. My Jenny Garganta.

After her the primary trunks went, and then the Glovolalalalalalalalalal, and now here I am, with only my suitcase for company. I think that it is all I really need. I like to travel light, and with all these deposits I am evolving into a better man, I think. At least my back is straightening.

There is something about this progress into Loss that does not remind me of the time I passed through Eyam. One thing that I have learnt from my travels is that not every journey can have significance; sometimes one just needs to get somewhere, and that was certainly one of those times. I remember following the road from Matlock through pinched little Bonsall, over the moor, plunging through the mines, and then into Stoney Middleton, along Lover's Leap and finally up Lydgate into the village proper.

Everybody was still asleep or in church, and I moved silently through the lavender morning and up above it into the hills. I did not touch or speak to a soul there, and I remember nothing of the place itself, only that revolving thought: "who would live here?" There are such better places in the world! The only thing I can remember is that road, wavering and chalky, bloating from a twenty-foot highway down into defiles of slate to keep the sheep in.

Here, on my way to Loss, there is no road, and without a road I feel lost in more than one way. I have only the Whale Map, and until today Jenny as well, to stop me losing my direction. I have passed through fields unploughed and starched with chopgrass and mother-of-plum, and through copses where the wind is so keenly forked that trees move past each other like ships. I may have drifted off for a moment some time on Tuesday, and awoke to find a Dutch elm rocking back and forth over me, deciding whether to crush me or not. Eventually the land that the Map led me through grew baggy, as if it had a surfeit of geography, and I rose up to a plateau where a river fell into its own ghost.

I have now walked through every kind of landscape, lined up like books. I grew quite bored, if I am honest. I shall write no more about it. I wish that I was back at sea, sometimes.

Tomorrow, according to the map, I will turn once more. Good. I am sick of walking in straight lines. All the way into this place, despite there being no road, the only biomass that I met was roadkill, the sort that apparently requires no road. Some I recognised; martyred badgers, embarrassed rabbits, pheasants still fluttering their mating feathers in the wind. Others were stranger, maybe mixtures of animals killed together in love or murder, and now coated with a pappy dust. I might have lost my way without them; they lay in long Roman lines, thrown wide by something furious and muscular storming through. There was never any blood. It is a great puzzle; what has come this way with such speed and anger and obliterated so many?

And then today I slipped between sheets of rock and out of the open country, and they rose around me filled with a marvellous Cretaceous sparkle; I have seen rock all over the world, washed like a dish in a soap of heavy metals, but this was the most beautiful. Looking at my sketches it appears that I came out of a narrow sphincter and into a wide caldera burrowed into the mountains, a biome of conifer. Everything, I imagine, feels clammy, as if a rain had fallen, but the sun seems eternal here.

I am sitting in the shade now, and there is a small lagoon before me, the water springing from the surrounding stone as if Moses had passed. All week I have been drinking only myself, and my tubes were encrusted with salt like a pier. It was the simplest and most beautiful thing to pull off the mask, kneel down, and lap, and hear afresh that old sizzle that the world makes when nobody is listening. I ate small berries that budded in place of cones on the disgusting conifers; they were earthy-sweet, the pits flabby and pink like pulled teeth. There is no life that I can see in the pool, such a small little tiny minuscule world fed only by the rain, and it is a metallic blackness, the shade was so extreme; those two colours, the black of the water and the gnashing, virile green of the conifers, are coated on my eyes. What is wrong with them, I cannot tell, but there is something--

The line trails off here. There is a gap in the text before the final paragraph.

I came here wanting to leave the temperate band of life. "I am in incalculable pain," so I suppose that is a good start...