Until today, I had been attempting to give a name to everybody in the town of Loss. Their reticence to do so themselves has completely infuriated me; I would stand and watch four generations of the same family fumble over their words, unsure at any one time of who was speaking to whom; they barely knew each other, could not refer to each other unless they could point with a simian finger. There is, of course, no cultural utility in this; their millpond community has merely seen no reason, apparently, to give things identities.

Nothing is labelled.  Flitting creatures, trees, boulders worn into accidental idols, each of the distinct mountains that ring their entire lives,  all day, all night, the directions of the compass, the compass itself! "Me."  Nothing is labelled. At first I found this idiosyncratic, laudable, even, but now I am tired of having to climb into the escarpments, just so that one of my interviewees can point out a particular shrub, vital to their story, in person. Names are vital to civilisation; without them, life becomes a haunting of itself, a FLEMMATIC bump against shrouded forms of things barely known.

I was conflicted when I first began to invent my own. I started with the mountains, slowly building up the range. I knew that they spoke mongrel English, and so began with English words that might serve to awe them; Mount Sunglory. Mount Beet-eat. Mount "Everglade"  (my favourite word in the entire, hopeless language). I grew in confidence, and went on and on, through to the trees, the subjects of my burgeoning bestiary and then the god-work:  the parts of men and women. At times I became glutted with names, up to the hilt, and could not make any more. The first day of cosmigonics, of naming the townsfolk themselves, was an especially awkward one; what would I call each of them? I wanted to become their friend, draw on their inner selves, and give them a nobility, like those who sheltered me in Avalon.  I remember the liquor that they had passed through my tubes, and the hundred names that they had gifted me, like a volley of arrows sticking in my back...

Unfortunately, the surliness of the Lossians meant that, for the most part, I was none the wiser about who they really were, under those smocks and nepotistic brows, and so I had to console myself with something more superfluous.

Mr. Lights became Mr. Lights, on account of his hilarious, larval genitalia, more like those of a robin than a man. Friend remained, since that day she emerged from under her father's cloak, Friend. Slowly I began to build an etymology which would bore most etymologists; were they to dig for its origins, they would be far too easily satisfied.

But, from today, I will stop. No more names. All of those that I have not named yet will remain essentially incorporeal. Today, Lantern, who I named for the aventail of bone-white hair that fell to her scapula...  lost her baby...

Nobody approached me, or thought to tell me. The day was hot, as all days are here, and there was a zoo of insects in the air, thick enough that they tikked against me as I walked through them. Friend had gone out on her own; she does not like Lantern, for some boxed, feminine reason, and had become angry at the amount of attention the other girl had been receiving. I had decided instead to spend the day awing the children with my Work so far. None of them could read, but the size of the binding impressed them, and when I held up the cover and swung it open to show no room behind it, their eyes grew glassy and their murmurs hissing. There had been an illness swept amongst them recently, one that caused a small degree of gurning, the lower jaw hardening and loosening like a flag in a breeze, and a bad back.  It seems to cause them only small discomfort.

I only knew something was wrong when there came another buzzing... the panic of the various points of reference I have for Lantern's life;  her father, her mother, her four brothers, the ermine and constantly-snorting Maervilles who was reputed to be the father, all went whispering back and forth behind me, upsetting the other villagers in their quotidians. They kept disappearing out into the murky woods, though they carried no tools apart from their own hands, wringing, wringing.  And then I heard a roar, a jagged, flinty roar, pickaxed from the lining of the stomach. I knew what was happening then, I imagine, as I tore a page from my Work, let the cover timber-and-boom into the dust, and ran. I had not even thought about the desecration I had caused to my own Work; around pregnant women, one must always be ready with dykes against the flood.

Lantern lay a little way past the edge of the forest, against a fallen “pinae pervertae;” I could see that it dug viciously into her back like an unwelcome gland.  We were, as always, far from any water, though I knew from her recent peregrinations that she was becoming less and less afraid of the river; child-growing had addled something in her brain, and she bathed in it, only up to her tummy, soothing the scoop taken from her. None of them knew about this, except me, and so I merely watched her mother dip her rasping hands into the smooth, goreless basin of her belly. She was trying to calm her daughter, like all old women, everywhere, while Lantern grimaced up at her, her eyes crossed with the effort of not letting her child die.  It was not working. Her father and brothers trotted back and forth like flies, looking up into the canopy with that peculiar Lossian awkwardness at seeing their own blood's genitals. It would be hard to guess what was to come.

This is not the day, with the lows of mourning all around me, to discuss biology or anthropology, and so I will try to be brief. Her condition fascinated me, and despite Friend's protests I could not keep away. All the other symbols of pregnancy were present; the linea negra running from sex to sternum, the swelling in her breasts and the staining of the nipples, and I had seen her out screaming in the beet fields, looking for something else to fulfil a craving that she did not understand.  But that empty belly!

At first, when she began to show, I thought that she was being starved,  but she ate like a dog, and grew fiercer and fiercer, more impatient with her family and the others around her, more warlike, savage and lonesome, disappearing for days upon days. Her father whined like another dog, a smaller one, neglecting his duties as a forester, while her mother carried on preparing meals, and dreaming of when Lantern herself was unborn and lost, and she went out to claim her. In Loss, as everywhere, I suppose, only the mother goes, cunning and deadly, up into her own mountains, to do battle with a hideous creature that will emerge as their baby, covered in the blood of their battle.  If this is not their mythology, it should be, and I would gladly give it to them...

In the mornings, the depths of her belly were in shadow, and the button formed a drain at the very bottom. I must not let her mother read this, but she once lay out in the mud, letting the rain fill it like a sink, and laughing all the time.  It was tight and shot through with youthful muscle before she had led Maervilles, as if on a string, to some solitary place and let him make a wetness.  I do wonder how these primitives handle sex, whether they are as horrified by the seed burbling from their brooks as they are by the larger one that feeds the valley.  I have seen no interest amongst them for anything illicit; there is no stealing away from the firelight, no hairless hands up skirts, no "anything." It robs me of anything of my own.  To be on the Zomia again, haha!  Wandering past couplings of tribesmen on the steppe as bold as brass, the only things moving for a thousand kilometres!

I do not know what has happened to spoil the child. I knew that she was near term, by my own calculations, and it could be any number of things that interrupted everything; her people's refusal to use water, even to sanitise a birth; Maervilles beating her when drunk on beet ferment, though I doubt that he would have the wildness to try; her own monomythic exertions, climbing up into the ravines; or perhaps an infection, vaginal or anal or perhaps that same inconsequential fever that the children have contracted in their play. Something pathetic and easily preventable, no doubt, has killed this child, and may yet kill Lantern, in the coming days.

Stupidity is the morality of evolution, and I saw it at work today, in the filthy, bolt-flecked hands of Lantern's mother, and the doltish specimens that peered between the trees, picking at their scalps. I wonder if they have a god or goddess of stupidity, like Koalemos or Murti or Snap-In-Rags, its statue neglected and abused with the others, high in the mountain passes?

It is such a loss, even in Loss, for this little thing to pass on invisible. It would have been the first baby born in Loss since Rumb, the littlest of the littlest when I arrived. It would have emerged, and unlocked a whole suite of rituals and traditions that only a new life can unlock. I would have stayed to see it grow, making myself peripheral at all the ceremonies and festivities that would have to be thrown in its honour; I would have grown old here, cataloguing its life. I would have given it a good name, even if its mother refused to use it.

There is a large scribbled-through section here, as if the Eremite came up with some names and then discarded them.

Before long she began cramping, curling over like a shrimp with every phantom kick, grunting and slapping away her mother's hands. She called out half-slurs, not quite connecting the syllables; I do not know if this was because of the pain or this people's dissolution of proper English.I have to admit, I almost snorted with laughter; their social awkwardness, even within family units, and their refusal to name each other, comes into such pale relief at times like this. There is no shushing, or cooing, or kind words; everybody looks thoroughly embarrassed at the proceedings, and even Lantern's mother wore only a frown as she tried to scry for the baby. Lantern herself began to gnash her teeth, and tears slipped from her eyes without her ever truly weeping; she began to windmill her arms, her muscles hidden under the coat of flab she had grown for this new arrival, that would cold when it appeared. The men moved back, completely lost.

And then the blood came, all at once, without a noise, as nobody poured it in into her from nowhere; it welled up, and it was only then that she allowed two tears, in tandem, to burn across her temple. Her forehead was furrowed in pain, her teeth bucked, her tongue trying to bifurcate itself, and I watched the pain transmit into a wave of frowns across the forehead of their family, the only indication that something awful was taking place. She lowed once, not like an oxen.

I was having trouble breathing, I remember, and I fingered my tubes, looking for the blockage, and I tried to calm myself by imagining the child, far from these awful sounds. Perhaps it has made a nest for itself in the bole of a tree, or under a tor up in the highlands, or is bobbing on the foamy calms of the river, further upstream. This child was hypothetical, as I still could not fully believe this biology, this empty belly and imagined birth. Perhaps this whole exercise is a cautionary tale for me, an improvised tragedy with an unconvincing chorus, or a demonstration of some myth that I am missing.

Lantern clenched her fists at her sides. Her father came forward to begin scooping it away, but she kicked him aside with a look that spoke of past molestations, the rising blood swirling and spiced like aerated brandy. She clawed her hands into hooks for towels, but did not bellow for them, as any other woman would do; a people who hate water have no need for towels. Her sides were working now, her ribs spooking against her skin, and her feet kicked into the dirt, raising glowing clouds around her, netted with sunlight.

It was at that point that I remembered that I had ripped a page from my Work for her, and as I handed it to her, taking care to keep out of the orbit of her stamping legs, and she began to rip it into long strips to dab at herself. I watched the words becoming bandages of nonsense, and realised that what I had given her was a piece that I had written about her, crouched watching her in a bush of sage when she was still in her first trimester. She had been lithe with a new courage, ranging into the river like an amphibian socket, searching for a ball.

Of course, she could not read, and she barely noticed the marks upon the paper as she made a papier maché around her own rim, glowering at all of us, snarling at us to move back even as she cried. I imagine that she was apoplectic at herself for letting this happen, even if she did not understand it completely. What is interesting is that she never asked any of us to leave. She let us watch her slosh around, kick, pile dry leaves and my great Works and anything that she could find into herself. Soon there were volcanic islands of clot that rose in the mire, which she plucked out and flung into the underbrush.

We only knew that it was over when she turned onto her side and let the last of the ichor drain off. On her back were those same marks, the saddle-shaped bruise that I had seen on the children. I almost fell upon Maervilles, who would not look at her any longer, and had retreated to lean against a tree and pick for sap. I found it unimaginable that she would allow anybody to hit her, but there it was. Perhaps the pulping muddled the child, like fruit.

With the last drops of blood to the needles underfoot, Lantern scrunched everything up, from chin to hairline, and turned a shade of purple that I had only seen in war before...

She had failed in her quest, or perhaps she had won; perhaps the child “was” her nemesis, a Smaug of caul and amniote, and she had sought all along to slay it. The unseen battle ended, and the carrion was drained, and the heroine began to tend to her wounds.

I later heard Mr. Lights speaking to Lantern's mother; he said that he would see to the child, if they ever found the body. Even now, a group of women are binding their ashen faces with scarves, to go out into the dark, pathless night to try and find the stillborn's hiding place. If Lantern knows where it is laired, she will not tell; she does not need a trophy. Not one other can share it, not even Maervilles.  I can imagine now, at the close of the day, as she cries herself to sleep, the first stirrings of her stomach, as it starts to rise like a loaf back into everyday flatness...