Friend's method of interruption leaves a lot to be desired. At least, I think that it was her who grabbed the pen. With all the panic she has caused, this truly is the first evening about which I have been able to think about her again. I will attempt to remember that day without bias, not as if it is happening before my eyes, but with the benefit of hindsight, which we are afforded so rarely.

She pulled me up in the stages which I had shown her, and we followed the tail of the procession up through those morningly dark meadows, straight through the northern horse-fields. We had to stop there for some hours as the children were dutifully allowed to immerse themselves in the mud, revelling in their own retarded mythology. After that, we somehow described a loop back to where the rocks had fallen on Togidumnus. The ground is stamped into a parade ground by their passage, and the seeds that were pulled down with them, secreted in their tread, have started to yield yet another stand of pines.  I am so sick of all these pines!  A monoculture of this scale is unprecedented! These saplings are already nearly a foot high, and it feels like the poor man has only just ceased breathing! "Disgusting plants."

What I remember very clearly, is walking behind Friend the entire way, and imagining the heat coming up off her head, spiced with all the particulars of her hair. Here and there was a shine that grows forth along each stem like petals. I can still see the systems of crinkling must; her dandruff. I imagined that the sun is electrifying it, but it was just that: "imagining."

This was the first time that I noticed how languid and bumbling they are in the heat. I suppose now that being so far from moisture is a sort of heaven for them.

We came down off the high grass and onto the needle bed, underneath the adult pines. Monasteries of scatterbirds wobbled up from the boles of the trees and strutted away bow-legged. I understood then why the birds are always so nervous. As the people of Loss refuse to make permanent paths of any kind, the wildlife has no warning of their comings and goings. This could be a deliberate effect by the people of the town.  How many of them have been out hunting, over the generations, and come upon that no-state of nature that exists when humans are not present?

We still went as a column, and the scales lifted from the townspeople's eyes now that we were out of the sun. I still had not been told about the weevils or our mission, at this point. All this time later, that curious progression makes sense. By minimising the area of our tread, we lowered the risk of anybody stepping on one, and increased the area of our observation.

But, at the time, all that I could do was laugh  (and I know how that sounds to other people),  and hold my left tube up to Friend's ear and whisper  “This could make a path, you know!”. I couldn't tell if she laughed with me, as she did not turn around.

Then how did it happen? Did I hear the scream first, or feel the column turn and drag me with it? I was already a little nervous to be the last person in the queue, and I remember looking over my shoulder every few minutes to check that we were not being followed. But it is undeniable now; the screams were guiding us through that place. If we were going in the wrong direction, the sound would become more strident, and there seemed to be a note of pleasure in it when we found our course. The rest of the townspeople ignore the Town Crier, or else integrate his/her/its missives into their routines without any conscious effort. Some days it sounded as if the screamer was being burnt, or peeled, or strangled with a rope. I shall write on this again.

The screams stopped, and eventually so did we. There was a more usual, closer bray from the front of the column. We were in a wild bit of valley, far from the town itself, though instead of rising out of it all we had sagged into a depression. The grove still had the unfashionable accoutrement of mist from that morning. I stuck my head out and looked up the column. There was a hoofcut of men and women at the head of it, spread out and engaged in what I thought excitedly at the time was a dance, but now I am not so sure. They would look around them in an exaggerated sweep, then crack their heads up, eyes wide, and shriek. I think they were just scared of the creatures that might be crawling up their legs, like housewives in want of a chair. Everybody around me, including Friend, was conducting the same search of the ground around them. As I strained my neck, I could see that the dancing group up ahead were surrounding a wide mound, built of earth and seemingly camouflaged with branches and leaves under the leopard dapple of the trees.

These weevils that we are hunting are known locally as the “Pageant” weevils, and as far as I can tell they are unique to the valley. They apparently have a powerful bite, and a prodigious rut, reproducing without cease. I am not an entomologist, but I had always thought of weevils as solitary creatures, not given to families or all their related idiocies (see above). All I had heard for months was how dangerous these things were, and that I must never stray into the needle-mattress. They prey on soft leather, digesting it in an acid sneeze and then crawling up inside the ball of your foot, eating it from within. What was it they called me when I first got here? I cannot remember now. They thought that the noise I cannot help making when I walk would flock the weevils to me in a heartbeat, though, and their fear was palpable.

I suppose that in coming along I have discovered the closest thing to a ceremony that these people possess. They bring the children with them to educate them about the weevil and its habits, and to conduct a strange sort of cull. Apparently, one cannot just kill a weevil, as there is a sort of pheromonal rage that dribbles out of the sour mash of its corpse, and sets its quadrillion offspring to war. The people of Loss instead conduct two separate exercises, which explained the long wrapped sacks that are lashed to every fifth person's back. When they find a weevil, they grip it tightly in a sort of long-handled vice, and paint its back with bright colours, in patterns and sharp lines that show up well on the forest floor. This rids makes it much harder for a walker to miss them. When this is complete, they take the vice and clip off the front right pedipalp. This turns the weevil's scuttling into a wide circle, meaning that even if they were to advance on the distant town, they would never reach it, becoming a philosophical exercise instead.

The frequency of this ritual coincides with every new generation of hatchlings, a calendar not transcribed "anywhere," and instead stored in the collective medulla oblongata of the society...

I think that I was expecting a prehistoric predator the size of a dog, that could lay along the length of you like a woman and bring such a scream to your lips with the implied intimacy. But when I saw one, creeping over the needles towards me and Friend, I dispelled any hope for these people. It was barely a centimetre long, with one dribbling snout and bulbous eyes, with the carriage of an opera singer. It had a striated, fuzzy pelt that meant that it almost blended seamlessly into the needles. I think that it might have been sent out from the hive at just that moment, to show somebody with a bit of sense that all this fuss was "for nothing."

It was crawling towards Friend with that insect hyperactivity, and at the moment I looked up from it she thrust her hand back towards me without looking around. She wriggled the fingers. She wanted me to hold it. Nobody else but me had seen the weevil, and I did not know what panic I would incite if I pointed it out.

I want to explain now why I almost let it bite her. I was completely assured that the weevil would not, and even if it did, she would not die. This scenario provided me with an opportunity to illuminate institutionalised lies to her, a sensitive creature with a revolutionary soul. I have heard endless, ridiculous stories about this place, about how the sun works, and where the mountains come from. It goes beyond simple mythmaking.  These people waste so much of their time, and cause each other such pain, in the name of nothing!  I have an obligation to listen to everything, and record everything, and have I not done that without complaint?  Have I not taken down every inane story, every burble, every gasp, every solemn fancy? I do care about her, I imagine. But here was a chance to show her the truth, to let it crawl over her and prove her fickle by the fact that she continues to live. Knowing that she is a liar will not kill her any more than these weevils will.

In the end, however, my gallant nature won through. Just as it was about to brush her heel, I knelt down, and scooped it up before she could see what I was doing. As I predicted, it completely failed to bite me, and I lowered it into one of the deep pockets in my tent. She thought that I had fallen, and turned to help me, and I accepted, allowing her to think that I was weak, for her sake, and the sake of these stupid, helpless rubes.

We tiptoed out of the column a little way, her eyes still flicking back to the needles, and looked up at the trackers. They were pulling out sacks of paint, and with powderburst began to coat the mound. There was a cerulean that represented thousands of hours of stone-grinding, a red that I knew leaked reluctantly from an yet-unrecognised herb near the waterfalls,  and many other pigments whose sources are unknown to me. When they had finished, it had the impression of a sad birthday cake. The shouting died down, and we stood and waited. Not a sound was made. And then we heard another scream from the Town Crier, a low sort of moan that dribbled off at the end, and with only the munch of needles underfoot the townspeople moved off in small groups, two children to one adult --  the first time I have seen any such configuration -- to hunt.

All this time later, and that weevil is still alive and sitting in my hand, happily storing my warmth for an imagined winter. It is the first living thing to touch my skin "in fifteen years..."