It was three days ago that I heard whispers that there would be music. As they say, I am sorry. I have not written. Nothing has happened. There is still no rain...

Until now, I have seen absolutely no evidence of luthiery, copses bred for bow wood, diatonics, or even a decent singing voice amongst the lot of them, but the rumour has provoked the slightest ripple of humanity amongst the townspeople; the children are excited, and even the elder ones are seen to be smiling, revealing their balsamic teeth. A banquet, then. A division of the rubes into rubric and rubbed. The players and the played. In Loss, this is a particularly exciting superstition, as it points to the existence, in this godless society, of rites, the pollen deposited by deities as they dart from people to people.  So, I would be here for the germination.

I am not ashamed to admit that I thought, quite rightly, that the ceremony would be in my honour. I was the only thing to change, from not-there to there, in what I can glean of their people's history for an awfully long time, and so it would still be positively necessary to think of myself as the anthropological contaminant here. At first I was appalled, that my landing here could make such a crater in their social consciousness, but I have since come to terms with my responsibility. If they are choosing to make their first songs, and tauten their first guts, to my coming, then I must make myself as elegant as possible. Indeed, some of them now pass me in the town with a wider birth, a hush in their simpleton English as they go.

Luckily, when the bulbs opened, and they began to fritter out into the woods -- bound for a meadow which I never knew existed -- I already had my Work and my inks with me; I was engaged in a battle with myself, trying to find a logic to their fractal, lonely housing; I was ranging about their perimeters, mapping the prism of the main trunk, the pipes that link each "hearth-pyramid" (my own term) to each cell, and the lack of any comfort inside; just the space to crouch down on one's knees, with no space for a partner, one or two. I started at Friend's cell, looking for any sign of personality, a stolen bouquet of flowers to lend the mysterious stone some flirtation, or even the scratches of nails.

I saw three of them slipping off, three who have not yet deserved names, trying not to attract my attention, but I snuck after them, dragging my Work after them, making a path which, I hope, some day their descendants will follow to their first holy grove.

The grove's edge is full of townspeople; the trees on the townward side are thin, sheltering awkward potlucks of families, hiding from the sun. I can hear the river, and if "I" can hear, than "they" certainly can; perhaps this is why they are so nervous. I have deposited myself in the royal green shadows, as far back as I could, and opened my Work. I am ready to survey my own deification, a little awkwardly, but completely, as I would for any beam-raising, circumcision or pontification. Though I am the prince to be honoured, a coronation is a coronation.

The Mayor is sitting not far off, intently watching the dense district of spindly pinae across the meadow. His fat little son is sat behind him, and as I watch them the man strokes the trunk, his chubby hands coming away argent with sap, and the boy licks his fingers clean. Is this the birth of a festive treat, a new Eucharist or carnival cake, only to be consumed on my holy day? Is it being invented, right before me, now, a fumbling for some significant manna? Is it poisonous? Will it send the boy green?

"So much --"

The text ends abruptly here, and continues in a new paragraph.

Now, here he comes! Out from the forest before us comes Wicker. One of the first amongst them that I named, a tall man, perpetually naked but cloaked in soot and his own charred flesh. Only his eyes, always pendulous with tears, never tracking, keep their colour, a dead blue, from what I can remember.  He reeks of parboiling, and I had thought that all the others hated him; they scowl at him whenever he passes, and whenever he stops to sleep, they conduct the first ritual I ever saw here; they would stand far off and spit, a perfect shining circle around his form.

A few lines of text are crossed through here, before the paragraph continues.

Every morning he steps over the boundary, and carries on his way, begging for clothes, shell-shocked by his now-distant immolation. None of them give him a cloak, or a shift, or dye him something new; he is left naked as the day he was burnt.

Now, however, he emerges from the forest, and all mouths are at rest. Not one of them spoils the silence with a jeer. He creeps, on scarlet treads, leaving soles behind him in the grass, gummy with gravied blood... I can see him wince, and even the winces hurt him. I imagine that I should go to him, and offer him some of my Greek balm, but it is deep in some unknown case, back in my camp, and I would not presume to interfere in the somatics of this cult.

There, under the other leaves, cloistered from everybody even in this loose bath of creatures, is Mr. Lights. He is the only one who notices me, and I see an undulation move along him, a blanching of the fists, a gritting of the teeth, but he does not come. He has been livid with me ever since I took Friend back to my tent, that time, when she had cooked that foetid meal. Even in this festival, I have no desire to be the Great Tempter; I did not deflower his daughter. I am sure he wants to ascertain that himself, with his own prying, but I doubt that she will permit him.

In the face of his ignorant sullenness I am making myself ornamental, a tiered shrine where only the hand moves on the page. The role suits me, sequestered in the dappled light, overgrown with shadow. I will mark the rituals as they come to me, as the players come, as the singers warble. I have checked myself for rips and tears, and have filled myself with chestnuts, new and untarnished. Everything is quite perfect for a sunny day, my hundredth day here full of organology. I can just imagine it; a whole new phylum of instruments, catalogued, freed of any caught gullyfluff of tradition, and all named for my own quickness.

There are two chaotic, disordered pages here. Please see the visual for the text. Continuing from the next page.

I am still installed here, consecrated and then abandoned. It is hours later, as the sun finishes to fall, and I think that I am ready to write again. I sat and watched every one of them melt off into the woods, stalking off in every direction. Some of them rang with anger as they went, still others rubbed at their arms and sighed as the chill fell. The Town Cryer's last call was a reedy gasp, barely intelligent above the wind, as the players, if they could be called that, fumbled with their tablature,  and then fell back, defeated by memory. They had forgotten how to play, or perhaps had never known how.

The tarpaulins were hurriedly dragged back, and the instruments were pushed back into the woods, the furrows they left now catching the bald, swarthy light on their peaks. The sap is still viscous on the tree where the Mayor sat, and the wind is moving in, made meek by the dicing the trees have dealt it.  I feel like I am back in Parson's Shaw, and the boys that I met there have just boiled off to take up their hiding places, leaving me to chase them; they were an excellent triptych of summers. Of course, there is none of that potential, or hilarity, here. Something has gone terribly wrong, in the process of the ritual. If it was in my honour, which I find harder and harder to imagine, then maybe I am to blame. I should never have come here; I should have left them to it, let them praise me in peace. I could see, across their shortcrust brows, the furrows of nervousness when they glanced my way into my shadows.

Let us imagine the hypothetical. Let us imagine that the ritual was not in my name. That it has been performed many times, without variance, in the way of such things. On the day that we finally kissed, Friend talked, vaguely, about the older times of Loss, when food was abundant and livestock trufflehunted amongst the woodland boles. We may conclude, from her statements, that there was a true culture, then, one now dimly remembered...

"What I am presented with today is something of a muscle memory; pomp and pageantry as nothing more than masturbation." Every ceremony is vestigial, a column holding no aqueduct, a bailey without a motte. The current incumbents of Loss' heritage, what little there ever was, have failed to keep the significance of their practices alive. The gestures are made, the sacred instruments are brought out of whatever storehouse entombed them down the years, the hoots are sounded, and the audience is gathered; but none there understand what it is they look upon. The hulking forms of the instruments, the percussion within them, is as alien to them as it is to me. Even the Town Cryer, which I have elsewhere designated a sacred mediator of the Lossian social system in the tradition of Baumgartner , could not hold the note. What I witnessed here today was the purest and most fundamental snapping of a society's string since I watched the quarrying of Ys' dykes, the stone used by every citizen to build a statue of themselves.

I will spend the night here, harassed by the raw skankiness of this abominable wood, and reflect on the abject failure of today, of everything. Perhaps a small story to cheer me, instead. A story about somebody who could sing, quite beautifully, and who knew how to honour me...

Her name was Berenice, and she lived in The Maidden, the high palace in Diadem, a city where every cupola sparkled as a point in her own coronet. I had read the legends about her, before I made my flight to Diadem itself; that every night she washed her gorgeous hair, hair that hung down to her knees, and then lie back in her bed with it still wet and let the soap sparkle across the night sky, mopping at the Zodiac. She had been a mopperwoman in her youth, before she had become an empress, and washed the stars every night to remember from where she had come.

When I arrived I passed between the blue furnaces of The Crocodile Star and the Grandad Sun, the ceremonial gate to Diadem where supplicants must pass. A queue stretched up through the streets to her palace door, and over many years I waited my turn, and finally stepped inside.

She lay in her bed, surrounded by attendants; the windows to her balcony stood open, the curtains blowing, letting in brief swathes of the universe. She had been asleep for a very long time, since before I had arrived, a malaise that saw her thinner and harder every night, and I was called upon to try and wake her. On my Semestress I played her every sonnet and chanson I could remember, but nothing worked. I had heard in the queue-culture that the only way to wake her was to cut off her hair, but no matter how many times I sheared her it grew and grew back, each time longer than before.

I was at her side for nearly a year, before I grew tired of the parable. I scooped her up, before any of her dusty bannermen could stop me, and slipped over the balcony into the screaming, interplanetary evernight. Our fall back to Earth was cataclysmic; the crater is still there, I think. She landed on her chest, ripping open a gash that would never quite heal, and we both shimmered for weeks afterwards. Nevertheless, she woke.

I had never met anybody like her before; she was wild for me, quite unroyal, a scented animal who, when she was not twanging my rubber or polishing my head, sat back on her haunches and sang, a lilting timpanic that swirled around me like a numinous hydrogen...