It has happened a few times before, always in the same way.  It happened in Agartha.  It happened underneath Urdine.  It happened in Pangloss...

I am hiding from an angry father again, but now I am no longer equipped, having not the lungs, nor the spine, nor the skull, nor the breath nor the stupidity. The next time, I imagine, I will be caught and broken open like a breakfast egg.

Today has been an eventful day, of which it might be prudent to write later, to maintain my handholds up in the branches. Now at its conclusion, in the preterm darkness, I am trying to take something from this dull, everyday jealousy that Friend's father, the man that I have decided to call Mr. Lights  (as he will not call himself anything at all), is imposing on me. It is forcing me to confront my phobia of these despicable trees they have everywhere here, the bioglut that is the only sort to grow in the valley of Loss. Nothing taller than a shrub dares rise otherwise.  What Wallace Line have I crossed, coming down into this backward place?

I suppose that I should be thankful to have discovered a new species. Most of us nowadays with the privilege can barely see the thing we stumble across.  We all want to find the new elephant, but we make do instead with a microscopic fern, or another mite amongst trillions.

It is hard to mistake this organism. After much deliberation, I have decided to give it the Latin "pinae pervertae," and the 'Common Expansion Name' the Not-Quite Pine, or, simply, ermitbane.  I have never encountered vegetation that I hate more.

Even sitting here in the lower, balder altitudes of a particularly lentigoed specimen, I only have to look straight up to be vaguely disgusted. If there was skin hanging in the branches, or arms reaching down to pull me up and schmaltz me into soup, I could understand my aversion. But, on the bark of it,  it is just a tree. I just wish that I could put my finger on what it is exactly that terrifies me about it.

It seems that the tree has hidden kinks, not only in its trunk but in its soul and sap. Part of it is physical, of course; there is a definite ghastishness to the slender man its trunk makes, and the carbuncles and galls continuously weep, all through the day and night.  Even I, with my head wrapped up so, can hear a very slight lap, as if it were licking, on average, fifty to one hundred lips a tree...

And then you look up, and there is this canopy, so bulbous and mastroskaed within itself, as if it were full of titanic, evil thoughts...

Less like a head, and more like a shipwreck. When I look up into it, I forget all about up and down, and I remember Lyonesse, and how I had to swim out across the lagoon to fetch my club card.  That wind, always that wind! Underneath me was the wreck of the Carpathia, resting on the sand perhaps thirty or forty feet below. The whole time I felt a poisonous brick just behind my tongue, and the urge to telescope my legs back up into my body. It felt like my paraphile shadow, like something groping up into my most private parts. I am just waiting for these trees to try to find a way in, to brush against me, to use me. It makes me retch just thinking of it. It constantly looks as if it is thinking of me.

Was there something similar, in e-ten?  I think so, but not on this level. How the people of Loss can stand it, waiting under these things, using their shade, I am not sure. Things have only gotten worse, the longer I have been here. The Newd Forest, *indeed!*

What the pinae pervertae denotes is a world largely absent from the valley of Loss; that of the legendary, the world of must-nots, craggy cave mouths and atavistic forests and the constant, constant, struggle of landscape to murder everyone. Everything about it is desexual yet sexual, static yet predatious. I wait for it to pounce and invade me, but it will not. I cannot enjoy my food because of it; the darkness underneath it, the monotheistic flora, the rot, the mist, the trap.  Everywhere I walk my breath gets tighter, and I imagine, always imagine, that I am about to be ravished in the fastest possible manner.

Despite my trepidation, I have been forced to string myself up in its branches to escape "Mr. Lights," keeping my legs still to stop the chestnuts rattling and silencing my tubes in its knotholes. Through them I imagine that I can hear the pulse of some interior lingam, horny for me.

I feel violated by this place...  the whole valley is a "kink."  Rosetto was right.

I had to stop writing, for a moment. I considered a lacune-eye, but it seemed a bit trite. He was there, right below me, pissing up against my tree! I do not know if he is looking for Friend, or myself, but his limp is certainly worse, from where she kicked him, and I can imagine that he is tired, and wishing that he had the honour to give up on her.

These sentences are being written slowly, to calm my breathing. I thought that he heard me changing inks...

These sentences are being written slowly, to calm my breathing...

These sentences are being written slowly, to calm my breathing.  My head is so heavy with the possibilities...

I have never asked him how old he is, but he is still ursine, broad across the shoulders and tucked in smartly at the waist. He has his autumn of hair slicked back with decades of grease,  accumulated by his aversion to washing (just like his daughter, just like "everybody" here), and his stomach has the density of a black loaf. I cannot help but see him as a servile wedge, designed to hold open doors for others with his taper. Like every single person in his community he wears his purple-dyed smock, and his hands and neck are embarrassed with the residue.

He let the bunched, dried fruit of his genitals hang for a moment. Even though I now know better, the slick he leaves behind on the trunk looks just like blood.

I must walk (gingerly, shadowed) down to the monoculture tomorrow, before the sun is too high, and collect some samples for the Seed jail. I have yet to determine why they are unable, singularly, as a people, to grow anything other than beetroot. They eat it for all eight meals of the day, in differing angles and states of matter. They drink its pulp in long gags, they boil it, fry it in rounds, mash it into bruises, bake it on rocks until it is crisp, and dye their clothes with it. And yet,  and yet and yet and yet,  every single meal that I have been offered since I got here has tasted of meat! That rich mouthfeel that is unmistakable to a palate seasoned like an iron griddle.

Before I had eaten too many meals, it was a mystery. I thought that there were peaceful murders occurring every time my back was turned; I would walk past the walled gardens, into the Woods Of Interbreeding, and there would be these little slicks of crimson everywhere. On every corner of every surface there were guilty handprints. I even began to find them on my own dunnage, around the locks and joins. This excited me because it denoted, finally, the presence of a ritual. No civilisation can deny the horror of blood. My initial thoughts were that it denoted a taboo against menstruation, one of White's most feverish fantasies, but I saw men and women alike making their marks, on their queer architecture, on the trunks of trees, in the grass, and, very very rarely, on each other. After I had become fully accustomed to their diet, I decided to take my pisses in the river; I did not want them to know where I had been.

Parlay said that a human body is “a feast of signs”, and this particular course eluded me until I went out west, past the Catafalque Yard and over those peculiar mounds and saw them, finally: mile after mile after mile of beetroot fields, far larger in area than the town itself, which appears to have attached itself to one side like a particularly virulent aphid. I walked amongst them; the plants on the boundaries have been left to go to monstrous, multi-chambered seed, and inside the stalks are the colour of stretched liver. They have been planted badly, too close together.

I should have known! I have seen it before! When I first arrived here, when I was camped outside that preposterous gate. Every day was spent slogging back up the road to bring down more dunnage, and arrange it in a way that would seem hospitable, and then walking back up to the Cozy to see if anybody had been drawn there. I became rather depressed, and then, on the first day of rain in weeks, there they were. Ten men in gigantic cloaks, standing in front of the gate in the mud, looking up at my possessions. They were a bizarre design, braced with some internal scaffold to draw the water as far away from their skin. It fell off them in petticoats.

At this point, of course, I had not yet studied the Lossian's absurd, ancestral hatred of water in all its forms, and so I was rather startled when I saw them; stock-still, stood in a horseshoe around the Cozy. I realised, then, that I had never installed it in the rain before. It works best in clement weather, and on that day it looked a little threatening, like the delicate snout of something marine come to nuzzle the landbound, and then snatch at them.

As usual, as with all primitive people, they did not know what it was. It never works as well as it could, even with the whole set unpacked and arranged just so, but this was even worse; they would not even touch it. Of all the places that I have visited, Loss is the only culture which does not associate the colour blue with calm friendship.  All they care for is purple, the purple of beetroot, only ever purple!

I folded up my cloak, and strode as openly as I could from amongst the dunnage. I did everything correctly; diverting to the proper glands, making the proper show of gifts and obeisance, and keeping the proper distance. They watched me out of the side of their hoods, the long guttersnouts obscuring their vision.

That was when I wiped my visor, and looked down. Their feet were bare, and there, skeltering down their legs, was this crimson delta. They all looked horribly wounded; the lividity of it, the quality of the bruise. I panicked, I must admit; I thought that some minor ailment had floored them all before I arrived, and now I would be saddled with the last few, sad refugees. I reasoned that they might just be mullioned veins invigorated by a deep breath, or perhaps the blood of another creature, sacrificed at a ceremony in my honour.

It was only then that I realised that it was the dye from their cloaks, poorly sealed in the weave...

Perhaps as these are the only people from Loss I have seen come into contact with water willingly, there was a hint of a ceremony here. Perhaps Mr. Lights and the others were ambassadors, or even sacrifices, to my encampment. I will have to ask one or all of them.

The next moment all but confirmed it, however. They were trying to impress me. As one the men's cloaks opened, and inside, standing up against their chests and groins, their eyes widening in horror, were their women. So very young, but I refuse to call them girls. They peered out at the scene before them. A settlement bigger than their own, built entirely of my luggage, stretching in henges up to the heavy clouds, every piece beautifully worked and ruby-red. There was reciprocation occurring, here, in the very simplest sense;  an exchange of gifts. This is key to any civilisation, and here I was, offering obeisance, and... there "they" were...

I have never seen such a paltry welcome in my entire life.  The symbols were all so tired; the girls in the cave of cloaks, the swap of menses to the male, the men's heads clandestine below the cowl. They were no braver, cowering back from the slightest droplet that hung in front of their noses. I could see their legs trembling as the beetroot juice poured down them.

Where have I seen such an obvious attempt at ritual before? There have been so many, they have barely made a score on me, any impression whatsoever. It might have been Imok, flashing her blue eyes and golden crown, and legs spaced on hips like a tuning fork? She certainly knew all about ceremony, and had been chosen to come and meet me, out on the road from Nighthead. She was so weary, laden with the signs for which I had no reference. That was *almost* as bad as this display. And then there was Yonlod, and the carvings that his elders made in his septum, filled with sweet grass, designed to represent the petrichor that was coming, the apocalyptic smell of drying rain...

But, I suppose, this time there was a Friend. "Friend" herself, and even then, under the cloak she looked furious. Her father's hand on her arm, she looked up at the sky,  the ranked suburbs of luggage that I had dragged all the way from the ocean, the Cozy and then at me, with such a look of  loathing that I almost choked.  My dear Friend, the only vaguely interesting thing about this town which I have come so far to see.

I love her. I can still hear her father prancing back and forth, trying not to make a path back to the village, when I know that she is down by the river, pretending not to wait for me. I hope that I can get down without cracking my skull.

Now there are children running past underneath me in the darkness. It is some sort of rite, probably something important, probably something from Parlay's list, but I do not know what life event they are preparing for.  All I know is that they are ignoring the missive of their elders; in the morning there will be tiny tracks,  which will need to be brushed back into wildness...