I knew, as I stood on the forekeep of the Sorgo, four days past Peskajumba and still the ship palsied by its swell, that I would miss those particular books that had sunk in their containers. As the Double Castle was overcome by the waves, along with another hundred pieces of dunnage that the translator had not secured properly, and at least half of my gifts  (such gifts you would have had, Friend, if the captain had not been sexed at the wheel, and listed to port!) I remember wondering how long the steel would hold on the seabed, and then, when that buckled, how long the leather would keep, and how long until lockpick crabs applied their delicate chelipeds to the latches and began rolling all of my carefully lain pages, my thousandton of pages, into scrolls, useless to anything but storms as winter reading.

And now here I am, on very dry land, at a complete loss for the quote I want. All my wit has gone abyssal.

The quote that I am looking for is from Hythlodaeus, I am sure of it. One of his boastful pub sermons, addressing the faults of some beautiful, fleeting people; he was the only man I knew who could fashion the dimples that a smirk requires out of just a nib. Perhaps I can remember it without the pamphlet.

"We did not ask if there had been men, for men were not news. There is never any shortage of human beings, to snatch away each other's food, or breed whole populations; but examples of horrid beasts, lonely and mythological, are not so easy to find."

Yes, that was it. The people of Loss sit in a bath full of creatures. The fauna that I have almost seen in this valley adds fortifications to Alfred's theory; there is a Wallace Redoubt here, keeping the ecology safe, humungous and unique...

I have never seen such a plethora of new things to catalogue! Not even in the seas around Ring-In-Opal, lousy with new fish, every single one pierced through the junket with gold! I can remember the ocean there, seen from the high ice at sunset, where the Ringfolc kept their elusive Mint; all of their wealth glinting from the inguinal of every beast beneath the waves.

But I have had trouble catching their glimpse, I have to admit. Mostly I see these things outside the foveal, in the periphery of my vision when I am attempting to catalogue something else, a stolen dance amongst the older Lossians, or a snatch of family history from the brewers. Whenever I look for them deliberately, they elude me; I am lucky that they are so large. This is a valley of gigantics. An explorer has not been afforded this opportunity since the world was stupid.  I wonder if this was how Praester felt, when he gurneyed into Bodo, and saw monoceros fencing with his bow?

I am almost too excited to begin my catalogue, and I do not have long until Friend will want me back in the river;  there has been another funeral today, and her father is kept sweaty and inappropriate in the Catafalque Yard.  She has nearly gone in up to her ankles now, and soon she'll dunk her head.  I am very proud of her civilisation; if she is going to be a psychopomp, she should at least look presentable.

I will, all very quickly -- in the space of time that is left to me until I must oubliette my Work and walk with this sweet girl, with the little starling's feet that her belt leaves in her muffin-top, and her purple fingernails and teeth and lips, the congenital tinnitus, and the little scar on her lip that quivers when she is angry or aroused, and her skin as dull and void of blemishes as a boiled sheet --  begin my bestiary.

A Peripheral Bestiary Of Loss And Its Surrounding Fastnesses

THE amoeba ON THE WINDOWSILL. Or, "The Scatterbird"

Every land that I have ever visited has had birds in abundance. There was the Loftenroost, of course, with its rude, chain-smoking hatcheries, and Camelot's darkdoves, and even down in the very depths of Agartha there were beasts that saw the air as a disposable transcendence; sacrificing up into it, and then throwing it away for weightiness when their wings got strained, and the caves got narrow.

In most cultures they represent the altitudinous, the excarnate, and the divine.  But here, in Loss, I have seen very little in the sky. Only here and there, now and then, flocks like flung balsam, dun puffs of powder accompanied by the sound of an evisceration and the terrified squawks of the scatterbird.

I first met one while walking through the long grass of the E, E, E, E, E, E, E, E, S meadows, attempting to interview the pregnant girl, Lantern. She had matured enough by this point to dip her swollen ankles in the river, and, despite all of her people's strictures, had begun to sluice her empty belly with the water. Every one of the ten men in her life were afraid to go, and had lapped at her ankles like surf, adoring her before she bobbed off to be alone, and conduct her quest. In her transformation I feel that she had left her people for good, and I only wanted to talk to her, for a while, and find out where the foetus is.  I cannot help but be astounded by her.

But as I crept behind her, trying to keep my nhaaas and hrrrs to a whisper, I came across this obese little thing. It was about the size of an eagle, but black and scruffy, and its belly hung past its basal phalanx.  What a waddling, duggish thing! It looked up at me with piggy little eyes, like currants in a bun. It was alarmed by the sound of my chestnuts rattling, rattling, rattling with every step and heaved up into the air about a foot, its wings still tucked away...

But, what a transformation! What a sea change!

With a horrific clap of flesh rending, like a tree falling, it split open, and three, four, five, thirty tiny birds, each a keepsake version of itself, flew out of the black mass and scattered, their voices little quarks of the whole. They sashayed off into the morning sky, but I am told that they glide silently at night back to their point of departure, and climb back in together, like the inhabitants of a monastery.

The farmers will not eat them; not only do the birds ruin the beetroot crop, and so are decimated as pests, their walkabouts make quaint paths, which the farmers scatter with seed every morning, whilst muttering unknown hexes to themselves.

 THE HARLECAIN. Or, "The Pageant Weevil" ...

I have talked extensively about this creature elsewhere but it bears repeating; if the people of Loss ever had a Grendel, unfortunately, for epics everywhere, it is this insect.  The rituals maintained and observed every month or so, the omnigenital education of the young and again, tiresomely, of the very old, just to prevent anybody treading on even one, "is remarkable."

After that initial hunt, a day I remember only for the sunshine, I encountered the Pageant Weevils three more times in my wanderings. Once, when attempting to explore inside one of their clutters of houses, and failing to find any crack, seam or sense that there is any hollowness to them, I disturbed a nest that had sprung up in its lee. The second time, I found one that had already been sheared and daubed, scuttling in a circle in the woods, making a fairy ring with the bacteria on its palps.  I put it out of its misery with the heel of my Work.

 THE POET'S DISAPPOINTMENT. Or, "The Turkey Dragon"

Oh, how they have never talked of the Turkey Dragon! How they have never sung a lay, or moaned in terror at the thought of this fantastic chimaera! How they have kept silent about its titanic orbit, its sarcophagy neck rubbed bare of feathers!  About its gametes, how it maintains the Lesbos Rule, only hatching flightless females! How we can all hear its moans, its tusks narrowing the gut! Of its Sisyphean, unkind habits of mating, scissoring listlessly in the caverns above us!

I have heard absolutely nothing about how it lives in the caves under the village, moving in a jejune flock of one, its clumsy, brobdingnagian skull stippled with cancer. How it descends from the mountains to steal the town's exotic cutlery, in great rattling hoards. I know that they all lie awake listening to it chime and clatter about, because I certainly do. How it makes nests of it all underground, thinking it to be treasure.

Every culture I have encountered has jigsawed beasts together into one. It does not take a lot of imagination. But here in Loss they resolutely refuse to mythologise. The Turkey Dragon perfectly represents their spirit, and what are animals for, living in the riparian borders of man's influence, if not to reflect man incompletely? These people have a dragon, and they will not sing of it. Something so downlandish, so useless, so... Lossian.

"Lossian," adjective -- the quality of disappointing reality stemming from great reputation or expectation.

 LA SELLA DELLA VERITÀ. Or, "The Bog Pony"

Out to the  E E E E, E, E, E, W of the Town Hall, through that fence tied with strips of dried fish, is a field of bushes, under which are gestalt saunas which regurgitate men sweating out their poisons, naked and screaming and rolling in the grass. One must pass through this gauntlet to reach the close-clipped meadow where mostly children go. I wonder if there is some deliberate landscaping at work here, that requires the young to descend through this bellowing Tartarus; the saunas are for adults only, and the children are reluctant to pass through the scrub. But still they go, to ride the bog pony, at first tentative and trembling, and then again and again, returning to their homes caulked in mud and a stronger stride.

This is by definition a juvenile rite; nobody over the height of five feet comes here, and so the delineations of taboo gain another enclave. Another boundary, another not-not. I have seen parents bring the ones who are not yet able to walk, but they always scurry back to the limits of the arena, eager to be away. They pay the barest attendance needed to stop these almost-babes drowning under the weight of their own heads; occasionally you will see a man or woman running back to fish their charge, fondued and screaming, from the muck.

Scattered across this meadow, in no particular order, are long pools of thick mud, each about the shape of an hourglass lain on its side. I first discovered them when I had eaten too much beetroot, in my earlier, more naïve days, and needed to relieve myself; when I came through the undergrowth I thought that I had found a field of garderobes. Though there was nobody there, I was cautious, and lowered the tide as quietly as I could. Unfortunately, the next day was some unannounced festival, and they all came and I watched from afar, trying to remember which of the holes I had stopped at the day before.

Once the children have chosen a hole they lower themselves into them, up to their midriffs; it is an odd sight, to see all these disembodied torsos scattered everywhere again. Some cold mornings, there is only a lone rider, and at others a whole brigade. But, regardless, the game is always the same. They imagine swift legs under them, as all children do, feign galloping, shout "hyaa" and "woah" and every command the steed of a heroine or hero would recognise.

You may believe that such an exercise has no place in a bestiary, and I would agree, were it not for one curious thing that I seem to still be witnessing, after all this time. Sometimes, as they holler and thrash, the children seem to lose control of themselves; it is not quite a fit, but is almost as violent. It is as if something is bucking around below them, responding to the kick of their heels and the slap of their palm. Indeed, some of them will hit down into the mud, covering themselves from head to toe, until the bucking ceases, and they sit, their shoulders heaving even from a distance. Such violence should be beyond such abdomens.

One night I made my way to the field, and dipped my hands into one of these holes. Nothing bit me, as I was expecting, but as I reached further and further, to my armpits, I closed around a little nub of something, surrounded by a concatenate jelly. I drew it up, and was dismayed; is this all the bog pony is;  a culture of mold and filthy water?

But, still, the children come back, again and again, and leave again with caked legs and wide grins. They are the only townspeople who smile.

Where do they go on their chargers?  Friend will not talk to me about the practice; her days in the saddle are long fini-

The text cuts short here, as if the Eremite was interrupted.