The River Upstairs

The Gods, The Moon, And Other Victims Of Loss's Monoculture

In as many instances as I can remember, I have called Loss a town. When I arrived it had the feeling of the municipal, a detachment from the world but not independence. It has a Mayor, after all, or at least a man who fulfils that function, and things are not wild enough here to call it a commune or a tribal. But having walked the length and breadth and edge of it, on each foot and with the feet of others, I now renounce it. Loss is only a vestige.

The lack of paths, trunk roads, squares or any sort of moot-space makes it truly difficult to calculate its area, but not so long ago I walked with Friend from side to side, all across it, through every point possible, and even allowing for my gait and, on bad days, my breath, it does not take us more than an English minute to know this civilisation intimately.

The cardinal points elude me down here in the mercury pit of the mountains, but I think I have had the best chance of orienting myself. The valley cheats, some days; at its head, rising behind a jube of foothills, is the tallest peak. Yesterday the sun rose behind it, and other days it sets there, and other days I miss its passage entirely, but such a thing does not impress me anymore.  I have seen daylight misbehave elsewhere...

What about the court of Emperor Dwayne, where through a skylight, a tiny window which only he and his honoured guests were permitted to frequent, the sun could be seen backing off and off, getting small but never truly setting, only taking its camouflage amongst the cosmos?

I remember him batting lazily at my outstretched hand, though why it was outstretched I now cannot recall; his fingers were fingers clacking with silver. I can hear the slaves now, throwing down the lesser shutters, and the courtiers leaving. And then his whisper, a pikish argot, with complaints about how lonely he got at night. He hissed, and asked me whether I would ever take a commoner like him. He was very handsome, in an underfed sort of way, and so I permitted him to tell me how his sun was very special, and unlike any other sun anywhere else. I could not break his heart by telling him that it was all the same sun, as far as I could tell. I kept him lovely and sad instead, and we sat there together, his throne room getting emptier as the light was evacuated.

So, wherever "E-E-E," and "N-N-E," and "N-N-N," and "E-W-W" are, I have seen Loss in its entirety. Eight months of walking the same scrubby meadows, the same ugly cultivars and empty eskers and drumlins, tongue-and-grooved by some dullard glacier. I have tried to collect the histories of every life here, but nobody will talk to me. I have been almost crippled by my wanderings in and out of caverns, down the aquitards to the hellgates through which water is judged. I have searched for magic, for machinery would even have allowed them a smidge of animism, if I had found it, but all there is is a morose, blasted hovel, and one of which, if I can be honest, I am already bored. I would have already left, for better places,  if it were not for her, and him, and them.

Part 1: "Her"

Quote, "We experiment on our loved ones daily."  Oscar Parlay

She, if I can imagine it, is coming to like me more and more; I already knew that she had a wanderlust, a sapient spark in her eyes which told me that she might like to know things. I miss her in the days, now, when she disappears. It is not a feeling to which I am accustomed, and it makes my mien copper-thin; I have caught myself on the point of talking to nobody, more than once, surrounded by only my own possessions for company, and watching the moraines turn purple or grey in the twilight. On that empty, logged plain, surrounded by an appalled jury of pine trees, I have begun to so look forward to those mornings when I will navigate the way back out of my cases and chests and find her standing by the gate, smiling and what I think is supposed to be beckoning. The days when there is sleet in the air, or heavy clouds, my own heart hurts, because I know that she will inhabit what little indoors there is here, until it passes, and not come for me.

She is very particular about what is allowed to touch her, and when we stand to look out over a view, or for me to sort through my inks to find the correct one, she will not take my hand. She looks at it sidelong, and I suppose that I cannot blame her; the difference in our digits has worried even me...

I still am not exactly sure why I find her so fascinating. When I think over the catalogue of men and women that I have met, she has nothing to give me that has not been given so many times before. She is pretty, but not beautiful, and I think that it might have something to do with how skinny she is. She is surly often, cruel, possesses few hidden pools. She has thin hips, a mean cage for children, and bad skin from a lack of hydration. She is small, and I usually detest small women; I think that she is of sexing age, but it is so hard to tell in these primitive societies, and though she has cunning, a sort of prelapsarian darting in her terrifying teeth and tiptoes, she could not be said to be educated. None of them could be.

She is funny, with a guffaw instead of a laugh, and can be spiteful if she does not get her way; her father must spoil her rotten, with what little there is to give here. She has hairy, serpentine legs and venomous armpits, and her hair needs every wash it has missed since birth, and I can barely understand the compact, gritty little words that seldom spray off her lips.

But there is something. Let us try and dissect it.

Parlay most famously said that the primitive brain is an emergence; I think that it was in "Sodden Thoughts," though I know that similar ideas were expressed in "A Study Of Herds", "The Road-Russia" and others. All of his time amongst rubes must have set his salt-cellar brain folding and unfolding, unceasingly.

The abstract was this; from out of simple, repeated processes, a larger complex is generated, its superstructure composed of these lesser, spiraled acts and thoughts and deeds quite accidentally. This superstructure is often imperceivable to the vessel of such an emergence, and the pattern is only appreciable with hindsight and minor godhood.

And so, here, I am sure that she will forgive me:  We have a vessel.

She certainly had structures in place already when I arrived. As the following will show, I would never try and suggest that she were amoebic:

"Existing Structures In Friend's Brain"

Trees (and perhaps their hideousness), Wicker, the Burnt Man (though I have not seen him in weeks), gates, houses (despite how restrictive the concept is, here), the fear of water, all water, a fear of making paths, a relationship to fathers, if nobody else, a proto-alphabet high up in the ravines, the Town Cryer, the Bog Pony, scatterbirds, the Mayor, something of a leader, arbitrarily elected, sex, childbirth, death, beetroots—only beetroot, the knowledge of certain vases high up in the mountains, perhaps gods, fire?, the awareness of the importance of clothing, of belting one's waist, a fear of weevils, a spoken tongue... this pared and peeled English. And, to add to them, since I have arrived:

New Structures, Gifted By Me

How to skim stones, up to three skips. The wording of a proper phrase e.g. "I love you." A joy of walking, especially beside a river. The concept of a mask, of two faces (I was surprised that I had to introduce this one). Ink, and its application. Chestnuts, and their musical application. Music, come to think of it; I have heard none here. Hygiene and the importance of water (cleaning of teeth; attempted). An appreciation of the colour blue. A fear of the colour red. Stories, other places, etc. An appreciation of luggage, and therefore travel. One letter, to accompany her spoken word.

And so we see that, by combining these structures, the innate and the gifted, a certain something is produced. Whatever that something is, that pattern, it sets aside every disadvantage with which this culture burdens her, and brings her to the attention of somebody like me.

Of all the populace, she is the one who has shown the curiosity, the pep and the brilliance to approach me, to not be afraid of me, when every sigil and bark that she has ever heard tells her  "no, stay back, this man is not one of you." I only hope that I can award her for her civility...

And so we walk this way, every day, and I admire her, despite how disappointing she should be. I imagine the new patterns that will complicate, over and over, arabesque.

Part 2: "The Town Cryer"

Quote, "Crow louder than the other cocks, and splash your comb about the place; therein lies government."  Oscar Parlay

On most of our walks we hear the Town Cryer. I heard it first amongst my luggage, on my very first day in the valley, and it narrates our explorations with a school of expression quite unmatched. Every time it roars, or croons, or bellows, I attempt to follow it, to source its seat and trumpet, but of course it is quite impossible. The valley walls make everything reverberate into mush, and no matter where I look, I see no flag, no keep. All I know is that, whatever it might, it sees us, and has opinions on our progress.

(what follows is a list of the Eremite tallying every time the Town Crier ululates)

I have spent too much energy trying to decipher it. It is without gender, neither vestal nor priestly. I cannot determine how, from its unknown eyrie, it can see every little piece of life that occurs down here, or know the seasons so minutely, or predict the meteorology before it occurs. The tone is intelligent, basically human, but far too grandiloquent to be just anybody. Despite its obvious importance, they pay it little attention; I am the only one who seems to hear it. My mind is drawn back and back, trawlingly, to a little nugget of Praester, one that I have never understood;

"balain, great usurer, keep'r of the main's mint;"  "I am content for tabulate, yet ne'er see ye glint."   "ye debts we owe, us ashoar, art heavy and increas'd."   "ye hue and cry out our defaults, the posse too discrete..."  "Menny threads, and more!"

I am stupid with it all; I am not certain I will ever work it out. Most nights we walk on, and I am none the wiser, and she is none the happier.

Still, something concrete can come from my findings. The tally cannot lie to me. It is a Vincian creature, whatever it is, fascinated by everything that this people does, and all the various sciences of the world around it. However, like most things, it loves one thing above all others.

Part 3: The Teenage Moon

Quote, "What a nuisance, the moon! A roulette artefact, smoothed alluringly by revolution after revolution, unchanging and yet still absurdly populist. It is only the font of so much nonsense about women, wolves and Wallachs. Do away with the moon! Reading should be done before night falls, in any case. That is why I intend to move to the Constantinople, and spend the long days catching up."  Oscar Parlay

Another evening of walking. She was building up some calves, and complaining less about the trite distances involved. It was a beautiful night, and one in which I made a wonderful discovery. It was one of the few times in Loss that I have recaptured that feeling of lifting a rock and discovering underneath a colony of insects, iridescent and skittering before me.

I discovered that, underneath all the deadening shelter of wood and bone and brow here, underneath everything, there is a bastard sort of cosmology.

Of course, every night, as in other realms, there are always stars. As a people they shine no lights, and this makes things all the brighter. Every time we take a stroll I try and coax out of her something colloquial, some myth that I might possibly write down about the universe and its forming.

If one wants to know a people, give them a blanket and hot soup and take them out on a clear night. Perhaps, whereas I may join Castor and Pollux, Altair and Tarazed, she may not be so ptolemaic, and may take Tarazed and boss it onto Scutum. In every place that I have been, even the most rubic of them have known the stories, have been fascinated by the twinkle, have spent hours trying to identify the pocketful that they know by heart.

I have navigated, with the tip of her finger, the hundreds that I know, but she is never stirred to wonder, and constantly complains about her neck hurting. It may be that they have no constellations in Loss, and why should they? A star is not a waypoint, after all. I was nearly defeated, until that night, was about to immerse myself in their sludgey logic, and forget the beauty of the zodiac forever.

But then, that night. She seemed to see the moon for the first time.

His Lord Dwayne would have been wrong about this one, too; there is only one moon. I have seen it many times before, in happier times and in sadder. It has that same eternal crud staining its cheeks, that same staring face, and yet, on that night, she seemed to catch it out of the corner of her eye, and be consumed by it. She stopped, and stared, and I took her hand, and she did not seem to hate it. I remember... she brought a silver-spun palm to her face, not shivering despite the wind in the trees. During that hour that I ignored her, consumed by a fear that her father was about to crash out of the trees and end us, she became gently webbed in grey, was made classical. She looked like a sculpture of herself in marble, and she barely moved. I could see a luminescence around the thin skin at the tips of her fingers, stained by borrowed light.

After a while she began to talk, in that tumbledown way that she has; the accent of Loss is a broken thing, where an initial hum deep in the throat gives way to the consonants, which gradually become quieter and shorter, until the sentence, if that is what it can be called, dribbles into nothing.

I did not really listen to what she had to say; she talked more about the moon, and may have talked about its provenance, the seemingly unique way that it came to be, her people's belief that the start of their world was unique. I did not truly believe that she had the authority to mythologise, if nobody else in this place could manage it. I listened enough to note that there was no talk of menstruation, of a feminine perspective. She was absent of anything that might mark her as a woman, and in that the moon was not her ally. She carried on elsewise, with different canons.

I knew, and I still know, that she was lying, was trying to convince me that she was having a Joanist moment, a revelation of some orbiting truth that I was privileged to receive. As she talked, and we walked on, following it in its barely-arc, she rubbed at the mole on her cheek, the mole that I had never really noticed before, and before long drew a sequin of blood where the melanoma was worst.

I took this hand, and paired it with her other, and we walked for a while, me attending her imaginings as chivalrously as I could, following the moon as it hiked along the range of nameless mountains. She was gripping my arm so tightly, and did not seem to care that I was not really listening to her prattle; it was as if she was dictating to somebody that I could not see.

She gripped my hand so tightly that it still hurts in the palm, days later. I have not checked to see if she has left a bruise.

But, in amongst the talk of pockmarks and the young loving satellites and how the sky could never be trusted, she achieved, in me, a surprise. She said a word that, in all my study of the English language, I have never heard before. Of course she has no letters for it, or anything else, but I think it might have been teenage, or something similar. The Teenage Moon, that was what she called it, over and over. The etymology escapes me. The age is certainly something, perhaps referring to its venerability, its unchanging features. Though teen is another matter altogether. There is the word tien in Old Saxon, an inflection of ten; though ten-aged moon makes even less sense. When I asked her what these ten ages were, whether there were Ten Ages of Loss, and a history to be had, she backed off, rubbing at her cheek again, and started talking all sorts of lagan about pimples and warts and her theories on what state the moon's back may have been in.

A nonsense word. I refuse to record it.

It became pitch-black, in some awful moment while I puzzled through all of this; when I looked at her, she was just a matte hole in the far oilier night, looking up at me and deliberately sifting through more of her wisdom. But then, as we came out of the forest, I saw it; the setting of the moon. It was finishing its analemma, the last of these ten ages, in the same place that I had seen it bow down before; behind the little caldera, high on one of the more severe peaks, its summit jagged and corrupted by heritage lightning.

You need only creak your way through this Work to see the calculations; this was the peak behind which the moon set every night, without fail. There was no variation, no peculiarity of the earth.

I had climbed to that caldera before. I knew what was there.

She took some persuading; the hike up was long, and there were several brooks that would need crossing, but in the end she came with me. I had been promising to introduce her to ahuacatl1, and I moved that schedule forward, extolling its virtues, the virtues of all the other food that she had never tasted. Before long she had forgotten all about the moon, and I no longer had to drag her up the mountain pass, to where the people of Loss shat on their gods.

Part 4: "The River Upstairs"

Quote, "Amongst the Cathayans, Nipponese and other Asiatics is sheltered the peculiar logic that the lonelier a place is, the more gods and goddesses and demons and sprites and nymphs must crowd there, bellicose eternally and just behind the ears. To this I say, 'dandybear.' It is nothing more than a comfort for serfs, who without letters, or music, or conversation, frequent the lonely places with more regularity. Why would a god, a sum of light and novelty and repetition, not flock to the lower, hotter, spots of ribaldry? Know this, peasants that will never read my words; when winter falls, the gods have already found a people better."  Oscar Parlay

I was convinced, when I first edged along that parapet high on the jagged peak, following Beetroots Rotting and the other farmers up to read the messages left for them near the waterfalls, that the stone vases carved into the very cliff-face along that ridge, fluted like the glassware of better civilisations, were reliquaries for the divine, or at the very least tabernacles. However, when I saw Beetroots climb atop one and relieve himself, I became party to a slightly bifurcated tradition, and a confusion as to the nature of godhood in Loss.

I have taken to calling this place The River Upstairs, and my investigations with Friend have only hardened my convictions. This is certainly where they keep their gods, but it is not a temple. It is a toilet.

Banishing gods to these calvaries, almost inaccessible to anybody with balance as bad as my own, would reveal either a deicidal or a deiphobic tendency in any society. This is in line with most popular scholarship; the more primitive a people, the more binary their approach to religion. A hostile natural world either excites, in the reptilian crevices that precede intelligence, the desire to placate or rebel against imaginary enemies. That the seesaw of proteins has tipped this way, to placing the gods ritualistically out of sight, and out of mind, is not surprising. It is one way to handle the problem of spirituality.

However, once this has occurred, most other societies make an evolution. The flues that worship usually clear in the human mind still accumulate muck, and must swept in other ways. A society might grow to be evil, or to be the most utopic individuals that have ever lived. Sacrifices of pigs, before tossed into the ocean to some pseudo-Poseidon, or left on some crag for the eagles to reorganise on a goddess' behalf, the scavenging of flesh used as a proof of some nirvanal appetite, are instead shared amongst the people. Muscle is built, enzymes are released, synapses are glutted. And thus art, and thus music, and thus...

Society progresses, and the gods are left behind. Secularity provides as many comforts as it can, and the calvaries are overgrown, ruined, and later visited only for their picturesque.

In Loss, however, that evolution is not at hand. They have done away with worship, with templery, with vestments and all the trappings of ritual. They have prepared themselves for this secularity, and yet stalled at the last hatred. Bound in loathing to these spirits which they themselves invented, so very long ago. The vestibules up here, into each of which, I imagine, is placed a separate manifestation, were carved by hand and wind and adze, and are maintained as a public convenience, a place to which everybody from the town, down to the most decrepit elder, ascends daily to do their daily business. Some make wine, others make bread, but they all use their bowels as the mortar.

For a long time, I was mystified by the absence of it all. I had never seen any of them urinating or defecating, and had searched for the latrine trenches, the garderobes, the evidence of effluvia of any kind. The only relic of the fact that these people had sphincters were a few lonely dags clinging to the thighs of some of the hairier men. It was not until I climbed to The River Upstairs that I understood where all of this material was coffered.

After that journey, I began to notice their disappearances. At different points of the day, the people of Loss ghost off in little groups, making the journey of a few English hours up to the treeline, and beyond, until they reach this narrow ledge. Of course, given their quite-separate hatred of making paths, the same route is never taken twice. This may be why I never found the way on my own in the first place, and sets in me an imagination:

What installations, what museums, what shrines and districts are missing? Stranded out in the tractless forests with no roads linking them back to the civilisation that built them?

With difficulty (especially amongst the old), they climb up onto one of the twelve pots carved into the cliff-face, evacuate, and quickly depart, back to whatever task occupies them in the creeping, buzzing days of Loss. They clasp hands unwiped, terrified of falling,  and I struggle not to laugh, sometimes, at watching them shiver in the wind, envious of the thousands of shadowy hollows down on the valley floor, where this would all be so much easier.

That night I went up with Friend, I think that it was becoming autumn; there was an atomless quality to the air, as if it had been vacuumed of anything as stuffy as matter, and I thought that I could smell, surviving inside my tubes, the scent of bonfires. I have never seen a kindling of any flame here, and I am tempted to believe that it is the seasons itself that produce this smell. It smells prehuman, and I have smelt it everywhere in the world, when the days are short.

Apart from these scant rumours, there is not a single symptom of season.  There is only one sort of tree in this valley, a horrid deviant pine that seems to scuttle without moving a phloem. They have grown in orgiastic clumps everywhere, fucking forests, their interiors like a darkened room in which I imagine that I can see people dancing. However, when I look they are stock-still, and staring at me. I think, sometimes, that I see the trunks bend double, rubbing up against each other. Some of them have had their bark peeled away twenty, thirty feet up the shaft, but I have not found the evidence of any creature that tall scratching its itch. Others, in the afternoons, are wet with a juice thinner than sap. What is more, when I can summon the courage to walk in between them, I cannot see a single fallen needle, or pinecones splintered by their fall.  It is just an evergreen sort of Sheol here; I think that these trees might contracept themselves, and reproduce only for pleasure.

As we walked through a particularly despicable copse, we heard a cacophony below us in the valley. It was the sound of millions of pieces of metal, falling from a high place, but no matter how hard I searched, I could not see the wink of it in the volume of blackness. No lights shone, of course, in the town, and the woods and fields and the river were similarly gone. It was as if we existed on a floating disc of changing texture and composition, now soil, now grass, now rock, which went nowhere,  and did nothing.

Up we went, across the tiny streams whose presence must create the most awful fuss amongst the Lossians when they come this way  (and at which even Friend, who I was educating about water's necessity, gritted her teeth), between boulders left Damoclean above the paths, through lofty meadows paned with diamonds of half-paths, the legacy of hundreds of generations of dilly-dallying, dancing Lossians, heh, desperate to empty their bladders...

I remembered the way, from when I came before, and did not need her navigation, and by the time we reached the precipice, there was the faintest light over what I was uselessly calling the south. Perspective went a strange way, that night; the drop of thousands of feet seemed only like a step, and I certainly felt the persuasive sugar in my brain telling me jump, all the time that I was there.

I went back and forth, counting the urns, taking care not to breathe in too deeply, or touch their soiled lips. There are twelve of them, each as full of slop as the others. The older cack, the coprolitic leavings of Friend's ancestors, had hardened almost to rock around the rims and down their sides. They were carved out at an angle, like the barrels of raised cannons on a memorial not yet finished, and apart from a slight cincture around their widest parts, they had no ornamentation whatsoever. It was cold, I imagine, very cold up on that ridge, and Friend shivered in her smock, and watched me curiously, saying nothing. She thought that I was confused, that I did not know what occurred here. I, in turn, waited for her to mount one and give me a demonstration, but she did not seem to need to go.

I could see steam rising from four of the urns, recent deposits made only in the last day, and the wind was whipping off the stench almost immediately.

I traced the glaze down the lengths of each urn; here and there hard beads had stopped in their tracks, and a great abundance of streaked material had built up above them. When I stepped back to the edge of the path, I could not help imagining them as a rank of young men, virile with beards, staring up at the sky. I tried not to be reminded of Iona, as I would do those wonderful men a disservice in the imagining.

The colours on display were predictable, and here and there rivulets of red revealed either disease, tearing or beetroot; it is always hard to tell which is which, in dung.

I crunched back and forth, examining their outsides, too embarrassed by Friend's presence to delve inside, when I realised something. I followed the colours from the lip of each jug, down to the rockface, and down again to the ridge below us.

The sun was coming up, revealing its colour. It was not made of rock.

I stood there, on an esplanade built of human faeces, and imagined the first architects of this awful, stupid practice, perched high atop the pots, not knowing how many years of straining and voiding and liquid lunches it would take to build a walkway here. I tested it with my feet, stamping up and down, but it did not creak, or crumble.  After that night, I am eternally grateful for the thickness of their diet.

It took me quite some time to build up the courage to place my hand inside any one of these cells, but Friend refused to take her eyes off me, and I took the plunge necessary. I chose the fourth from the left, and pierced the surface. It was still wet, and pliable inside, and I went in up to my elbow. I could feel the warmth through my gloves, and for a while I just stirred, the sun making shimmers in the grease. I would occasionally close my fist around something, but it was only ever fibre, some root or pip too stubborn to digest. Friend had backed off down the trail, hugging the rock with a hand over her mouth, and I grew suddenly the most terrible depression possible.

She came towards me, once or twice, asking me what I was doing, threatening to leave, slapping at my arms, before sitting down and staring out over the valley, ugly with mist. I kept sifting, imagining what novelty the sunrise was producing in her mind, and then I found her. The goddess.

My hand closed around a hard oval: part of the rock. There were holes along it that I could finger like an ocarina. I thought at the time that it might have been a trepanned skull, an offering, but then I crept along its edge until I found a tapering branch, a pair of lips, another pair of lips inside, and then a sharp point.

I imagined arms holding staves, guns of thunder, necklaces of jewels, a vehicle of clouds, all manner of theologies. It was useless, of course; I had no idea what these gods may be, and she ignored every question I asked her, as I found this leg, this tentacle, this and that serene face. It was difficult to translate my gropes into idols, and so I stepped back, tried each in turn, and began to draw.

I stand by my decision to render them, and give them names. I chose English as the medium, to at least honour their traditions, but I made sure that Friend could not see what I was doing, no matter how hard she tried. Before that night and morning I might have welcomed this wrestling, her limbs slapping into mine, her teeth in my head, but now it only upset me. It was all so pointless, so hoarding. In exiling their gods to this high place, the people of Loss should have found other things before which to prostrate. But this tradition begets further tradition, and even though they show distaste for their former creators, they have given them power. They have cloistered them all the way up in the lonelier places, and yet make a pilgrimage to see them each day. They squat sneering over them, and yet still hide their forms inside these jars, making them mysterious, romantic, Delphian. A true insult would be to make them obvious, naked, ridiculous. They should have put them on the handles of their doors, if they had wanted to truly ruin them.

Friend did not show an ounce of hatred, to any one, in all the hours we whiled away up there. I do not think she understands the tradition. It is just the way things are, and so the gods still hold sway from their prisons, smiling up from the sewer, whatever their names are, whatever avatars they take.

We returned to the village, the hamlet, the skidmark, when the morning was still ghostly, before this lazy, thoughtless trace of humanity had woken. Friend had kept her distance, staring at my hands and holding her nose, and I was worried about the rattle of my chestnuts rousing absolutely everybody. I was still scared of Mr. Lights, closeted in his own quarters nearby, and I am sure that he would have had something to say, something gnomic yet idiotic, about his daughter spending all night up in the mountains with his monstrous outsider.

I took her back to her little house, some distance away from the main "hearth-pyramid" to which each individual cell is attached.  I said that I would stay, and guard her, and she only frowned and laughed, a rather novel combination that I had never seen on a woman before.

Of course, the poetry on which to end all this is obvious. I knew that when she made me turn around as she fumbled for the hidden door, and disappeared inside a construction not much wider than she is, that she was interring herself in her own jar, varnished with sweat and condensation.

When I turned back, and she was gone, after she had told me quite categorically that I could not join her, I stayed for a while. At the height of each little house, one for each townsperson, there is a tiny slit through which her breathing slowed, and the dreams began, and her sleep dripped out. I listened to her, imagining the space she must occupy. The house tapers at the top, and is only as tall as she can curl up, and no wider at the base than her legs spread. It is a punishing womb, one where she could never be comfortable.

Why would she not want to leave? Why would she refuse, again and again and again? How awful she must feel! What brutalities they visit on themselves! How useless they make their lives! What dry love, how many the hours, filled only with making vegetables soft and the lobes softer...

There was no kiss, not yet, and no holding of hands. I took myself and my stink off, before anybody could rise, to wait for days.
