Now why has that come about? Why do I remember Abbieannia, after all this time?  Is it the expert colours of the day, or the fact that I have a paintbrush in my hand? Is it these children streaming around me like heated air, that remind me of others, scissored babies, who smiled far more often? There are no orchards here, and fewer opportunities to take to the air. There's not even a play at war, and definitely no lightning, or grey-water.

Why is it coming to me now, when it usually keeps itself folded up and opaque? I would recognise that lightning anywhere, and I have that strange feeling that it did not come out of my hand on the prow of a paintbrush...

I suppose that it was there that I last lay down. I recall that they built me a little sling from the hems of their dresses, and I was buoyed up amongst them and away from Manley and Henry and all the other traitors. I suppose that I never had cause to remember it, until I tried to lie down again, fully flat.  It is like I have finally connected up all the disparate roads of my body and created a bypass, up and out and away from me. It could end very badly for me, if I do it incorrectly.

Friend and I are lying in a stand of Andrew's Lithic that she chose, the stamens barely curlewed. We are not hidden, as the herbs are young and have not coiffed up seed-pods, but everybody around us ignores us anyway. I feel like I am lying in suspension; grass usually gives away the configurations of young lovers, but I think that when we rise this curious little plant will spring back up and prove a loyal ally. Her chin is on my shoulder, and she is in that happy mood  that is created by me writing, and her imagining that it is more important than it really is.

It had been *her* idea for me to get down on my back again, and I was loath to even try it. I patiently tried to tell her the story of the Vivian Girls, how they had made me lie down, had appealed to my windy temper and won through, and  look look,  I whispered, what had happened to them? Of course, she didn't know, but I told her both stories, to see which it was that she preferred. I wanted to explain, in terms that she would understand, what would happen in my throat, how like the bulkheads of a ship it was, and what bulkheads were, but then I would have to tell her about the sea, and I do not think that we are quite there yet. She certainly is not as afraid of the water as everybody else in Loss, but I cannot imagine what her reaction would be to the notion of such an expanse. She liked both the endings, but preferred the one where I went back and tried to make things better, and laughed when I told her about poor little Joice and the creeping thing in her knickers, and how she was the only one of the sisters who would wear clothes. I finished the tale with Joice and I in the field of Pop-Me-Lightly. Friend laughs and laughs, a crescendo up into a personal stratosphere of ours and --

There is a break in the text here.  He asks in enlarging penmanship if someone is looking over his head.

I wish that I could draw the configuration that we are lying in. Her fingers are drumming on the stretched rubber of my skull. Though there's a smaller part of me that wants to leave her alone, let her keep on drumming away, I know what could happen, and I will have to be firm with her.

I look out through the smooth hood her leg makes, bearded with a hair so fine that the wind barely moves it. She has moles that fade in the sun, and so as long as it does not go in I can continue to tell myself that they are not there. Through this perspective the legs of the townspeople are still being walked past us, but I cannot feel where their eyes are looking. I wonder where they are all going? Friend does not seem too concerned, so perhaps she knew that they would come this way.  I am feeling a little wet underneath, and I think my throat is at its own lip, and threatening to overthrow, but as long as she does not buck and throw me to the ground I will manage to stay alive.

I feel as if I am somewhere else; my head is between a girl's thighs, and I associate such things with other places. Her arms are trembling. I know that my brain is heavy, but I wish that she would stop trying so hard to impress me with how relaxed she can be. Even if they won't look down, I know what the shuffling adults think as they walk past, and the children that are peppered throughout them, seasoning on a marriage. She does not have to pretend that it is ordinary for her,  to lie here with something...

Through her legs I now see four more girls standing in the sun, ones to whom I have not been introduced, or rather four legs and two girls. There is a change in altitude where the cloth begins, that always comes at the nape of something, and the down there glitters like ore. They are leaning idly against a tree, scratching themselves and coughing without needing to, before a cloud picks on them and they are pale again, all gold gone from them.

And just then Friend's father sloped past, or rather prowling at such a slow pace as to be embarrassing. He turned his lower half slightly, and I wonder what face she made at him, what strand of father-daughterhood passed between them. I think I am close to defeating him. Nowadays he leaves us be for longer and longer periods, saying nothing when he does see us but instead only leaving with his brows knit, his baroque eyelids twitching, complex with styes. I do feel sorry for him, having to see such a change in his only daughter. She has this easiness that comes with growing up, this easiness with such a monster as myself. He is not equipped with the culture to handle it.

I watched his stained calves flex and almost stumble as a little girl brushed past. He shuddered, I could see it, I could see it, he actually shuddered at the thought of touching someone. He has hurried off to seek other old men...

With this strange demonstration of Mr. Light's intimacy issues, I might take this opportunity to discuss the topography of the people of Loss, and how it has revealed itself to me.