I am at the bottom of a barrel ribbed by one particular night sky. An interuniversal gas cloud has fallen wounded over the ocean, and in the dark there is a hope that whatever is pursuing it will not find it lying here. Over the next fifteen million years it will raise a finger and shush me, but for now we both stay still and empathise, for a little while. And underneath us, the captain's freeze-dried little wife is crying,  and giving us away.

There is a dreadful tradition amongst explorers in commandeering the cabins of their captains. Darwin was a notable exception, but the demure little biologist was known to wilt if Fitzroy even glanced in his direction, and the captain was always more interested in keeping his own fluid down than Charles' cabinet of scratching tortoise and endless, boring seaweed. One exception, then, and not a very good one. From Da Gama onwards, the explorer has come to believe that his mission is what keeps him going, and not wind or oil or the chain-rattling of sailors, and so thinks that the heart of it all is the place for him. I do not wish to be seen this way. As much as I would like to, I cannot continue to exist without these men. I could never be selfish towards them, as my self is stoppered up in this little bottle which they helped create. I am, when aboard a ship, not the most important anymore. Here, one's worth is measured inversely to one's weight, and with all my talents I am heavy by anyone's standards.

Unfortunately, Captain Negar has gathered up all my weight, as I imagine he attempts daily with his own stomach, and forced this ancestral selfishness upon me. There is a not-very-famous saying in Marwencol that I heard before we left port and meant to take on advisement.  "Spin your wheels on the outskirts, and let the rest of us sleep..."

Therefore, I begged Negar to allow me to take a bunk with his own men. Of course, I was not to know that he could not understand me, and that he had refused to learn English throughout his entire career.  God-knows-not! Imagine not speaking English, in this day and age!  Everybody knows the hierarchy on the ocean. English, then Spanish, and only after those two does one learn Portuguese. I tried to make him hear anything; I would sleep in the crow's nest; I would make a double-castle from my luggage; I would climb into one of those big steel containers and hang it with scarfs and lamps, if he was so keen to see me comfortable...

I am now fairly certain that "soberano" is a fairly dreadful curse in Portuguese, as the captain muttered it the entire way down through the superstructure. He carried my first luggage, the only one which would fit through any of the bulkhead doors; the effort made his neck turn purple like a venom was spreading through it. He slammed his door open and tick-tocked the case onto the bed. His wife must have been experiencing a routine terror as all the men came back aboard, because she was ferreted in under the covers. The case caught her leg and she howled and leapt up. Those few times that I see her walking now she is limping. They began to shout at each other without any momentum. She was pointing at me, screaming, looking up past my eyes and back down past my chin, past the glass and the rubber, undressing my head as... women tend to. When I tried to speak and she could not understand me, it only made things worse. Her eyes spread so far apart I thought that she might have been taking Darwin's lesser-known advice and regressing down the equine route. That would have been a shame, because unlike so many *other* women, she does not look in the least bit horse-like. She is compact, and compactness is manageable, and preferable, in a woman. If bulk is a sin aboard a vessel, the captain has saved himself some of the allowance and instead made his wife portable. I imagine that he has made her non-perishable as well, salted her down into toughness.

Forty-one days on, and I still have not found a solution. The bulk of it can be propped against the camphor raft of their marital bed (which will prove fairly poor if we hit a reef), but every time we nick a swell the rounded bottom of the thing merrily nods to the tune and I slam into the deck. Every single time, I look up at the dresser and see their cups and saucers, also, round-bottomed, giddily rocking in time...

I think that today's sea-quale will be this gas cloud, and how she spoilt it. I just cannot express myself, and I know nobody else will have seen it. Every other man is asleep, apart from the timoneer, but he will be reading intermittently by the light of that glowing monster-compass and eating chocolate from under the dashboard. I worry about our heading, but at least there is nobody but me looking at this now, most likely nobody else on earth...

Now, right now, there she is again, screaming like her leg was severed in that cabin!  I suppose that her gametes are against her. She is certainly not crippled, as I am certain that she is following me around the ship. Today she had made a little wigwam up against the exhaust vent, using the blankets I brought from my room as a peace offering. Unfortunately, it was right in my path as I made my daily bilsdungroman to the bow, and as I approached she jetted out, like canned meat, and began screaming at me. Ten crewmen sloped over, brows already knit before they frowned and I gave them each fifteen rubbers before they were placated. I do not understand; she must be used to men, being aboard ship? She should lock herself away, if we all terrify her so much.

The captain's door is watched every night now, though if I emerge they scuttle off back to their berths. I'm not sure what they are expecting from me, but I intend to disappoint them. Tonight I looped around the handrail to the stern, that forgotten place where heroes and lovers rarely find themselves, and watched a storm fight over our leavings, before the great wounded thing flounced down over us. She is still crying, on the deck just below me,  haunting me with her husband's injury. I had brought her out a little bracelet that I found behind the headboard, that she must have dropped and forgotten and would be so pleased to have back, but I might now just throw it into the sea...

I do not know where the captain is. He does not sleep with her at her little Calvaries; he is too busy martyring himself to my comfort, and even failing in that. Three nights without sleep rids you of all sorts of beauty...

Standing here, with what I imagine is the wind whipping about me, I am thinking about Millifiori again. I have resolved that this will be the last time that I write about him. He would have made sure, as he always did, that he was here to witness this. He would have seen it for the sign that it really was, would have congratulated me on my election by the universe, and brought out exactly what we both wanted to drink from somewhere in the folds of his cloak, and found a way for us to  drink it.  	And now I am finished with him.

The food is still atrocious. Tonight was fish skin rendered in bilge, and the blessing of rainwater to drink. I will find out where they are keeping all the good food; there must be provisions for ten or twelve months here somewhere out on deck, amongst the canyons and defiles that we grew in a few short days at port. I do not know how the crew could not be more excited, with all this potential around them, all these hermetic cells full of who-knows-what covered in glyphs that none of us can understand.  What a hoard we may be carrying!  Before we stop anywhere else, I intend to find it...

For once, I am exceedingly hungry...
